[r388c15] row389 seq10 136w auto_about=- auto_disc=chemistry;biology;neuroscience;computer science
IIT: no; Cs is a natural property of certain kinds of systems, where causal power is concentrated. you cannot simulate causal power; the real power is Cs, not simulated power. no q we will be able to simulate the brain, like weather, but you wont' get Cs or rain out of either simulation. Cs would have to be built into the phyics of the system, not a simulation, but rather neuromorphic computing, not software, but at the hardware level. That way, Cs might be built. There's nothing supernatural about it. Animals are Cs, but less so as their info processing capacity is reduced from ours. in the limit, perhaps bacteria could have Cs (a few billion molecules, a few thousand proteins; it may feel like something to be bacteria, possibily. perhaps most biological systems feel something.

[r388c17] row389 seq11 65w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
But not mitochondria; any Cs they might have had have been subsumed into us. That little bit of phi is integrated into a single larger system; it maximizes IIT, not any of its parts exists for itself. (Other, smalller integrated components exist for others, are not subjects.) So split brain results make sense on IIT. Tatiana twins with brains grown together may be one Cs...

[r388c18] row389 seq12 56w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
Zip and zap: apply TMS (transcranial magnetic stimulation) and listen for echo via high-density EG. IIT implies differentiated and integrated, and PCI (0-1) complexity index can indicate Cs. (GNW has a p3b measure: are people surprised? not used in clinical studies at this time.) This is mind/body problem progress: can test based on theories for Cs.

[r388c19] row389 seq13 66w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience;computer science
Ethical implications: experience is what matters. For us, animals, computers...car is a means to an end, but dogs are also with Cs states, and you can't abuse it, cause it to suffer... See Koch's institute paper in Nature, using combinatorics comparing mouse vs human brain cells...roughly same complexity....hardware is very similar, but we have 1000x more than mice (and whales, 2-3 times more than we have)

[r388c20] row389 seq14 51w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;neuroscience
Koch: may need a QM version of IIT. But at this time, most actions can be understood classically. So empirically, we don't seem to need QM to explain Cs; no experimental evidence is there (No QM needed for action potential in neurons...) But keep an open mind re/ quantum and consciousness.

[r388c21] row389 seq15 21w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;neuroscience
CK: get a classical UG degree, specialize in neuroscience in grad school (study physics, mathematics, statistics, etc as UG) GC agrees.

[r388c22] row389 seq16 42w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
GC: fascinating that CK doesn't thing NCCs suffice to explain Cs. So what exactly is phi? Causal efficacy, causal power. // Allen Instittute has pioneered open science, sharing data. Koch's book good intro for IIT; go to P's work for the math.

[r389c3] row390 seq1 11w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
Gs review of episodes 1-7, then the whole 4-episode Cs sequence.

[r389c4] row390 seq2 41w auto_about=- auto_disc=chemistry;biology;neuroscience
1. John Dowling, Understanding the BRain: from cells to behavior to cognition. Aimed at nonscientists: neurobiology, systems ns, and cognitive ns. How are neurons different from other cells? Need Oxygen, and cannot replicate. Use both biochemical and electrical means to communicate.

[r389c5] row390 seq3 72w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience;sociology
2. Allen Castel, Better with Age: phsychology of aging. There is a lot we can do to retain brain health; can compensate against loss of reaction time, etc. Age successfully all life long; habits matter. Exercise and maintain social contacts, across a wide age range. Regular walking causes hypocampus to grow, form new memories. Better memories and general affect. WALK. (Balance affected, also. Walk on non-paved surfaces to keep balancing muscles tuned.)

[r389c6] row390 seq4 17w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience;computer science
3. Paul Middlebrooks (neuroscience podcaster--Brain Inspired AI focused.) Discussion of how AI and NS influence one another.

[r390c3] row391 seq1 9w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
// Jeff Hakins with Paul Middlebrooks of Brain Inspired

[r390c4] row391 seq2 16w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
there are 1M visual sensory inputs from the eyes, 1M from the body, 30K from auditory

[r390c5] row391 seq3 29w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
PM: 5 papers on sequences, then sensory motor sequences, then cortical columns based on grid cells from hypocampus can do that trick, all this mapped onto layers in cortex.

[r390c6] row391 seq4 130w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;neuroscience;computer science
JH: several million fibers in from senses, constantly changing (either world moves, or we move),brain builds predicitve model of the world, looking for sequence, mostly because we move; sensory motor model addresses this problem using grid cells. Neocortex has cells representing locations relative to other things (eg features on the door...); this location signal is the big deal. How could neurons know where the body is? Look at grid cells in the entorhino comples in the hypocampus represent location of body relative to room; nature hacked this; cortex uses grid cells for location processing of everything relative to everything. Grid cells complexes are clever, evolved over a long time. (See rat moving around room image in paper.) Same in neocortex, if finger moves around the typwriter...cortext took the navigation algorithm.

[r390c9] row391 seq5 66w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;neuroscience
1 must be grid cells. 2 every column can learn complete models. 3. Need displacement cells: no evidence yet, but proposed, predicted, needed: deduced (how?) marcus lewis from neumenta came up with this solution: 1mm^2 x 2mm high x 100,000 neurons per column, 10K per layer (6 or more). #s tested against theory and observation, both. Maybe 1/10th of cells are related to the displacement(?) cell.

[r390c10] row391 seq6 86w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=neuroscience
Aside: JH: the world is structured this way, things made of things, etc. Channeling DH: no shit: we structure it this way, for fitness. Correlation of world to brain theory does not explain brain structure, it explains world...but not with brain structure at root, but with nature of consciouosness at root, explaining both brain structure (TL: the limitations of our perspective spelled out as senses and information processing) and the rest-of-the-world structure (our best, model-fitted, limited-perspective-necessitated fitness shortcut to grasping reality through interface (including space-time) construction.

[r390c12] row391 seq7 4w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
back to JH notes:

[r391c3] row392 seq1 10w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
// information storage in grandmothers: Proc Nat Acad Sci https://www.pnas.org/content/pnas/116/52/26669.full.pdf

[r391c4] row392 seq2 189w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;history
Understanding why females of some mammalian species cease ovulation prior to the end of life is a long-standing interdisciplinary and evolutionary challenge. In humans and some species of toothed whales, females can live for decades after stopping reproduction. This unusual life history trait is thought to have evolved, in part, due to the inclusive fitness benefits that postreproductive females gain by helping kin. In humans, grandmothers gain inclusive fitness benefits by increasing their number of surviving grandoffspring, referred to as the grandmother effect. Among toothed whales, the grandmother effect has not been rigorously tested. Here, we test for the grandmother effect in killer whales, by quantifying grandoffspring survival with living or recently deceased reproductive and postreproductive grandmothers, and show that postreproductive grandmothers provide significant survival benefits to their grandoffspring above that provided by reproductive grandmothers. This provides evidence of the grandmother effect in a nonhuman menopausal species. By stopping reproduction, grandmothers avoid reproductive conflict with their daughters, and offer increased benefits to their grandoffspring. The benefits postreproductive grandmothers provide to their grandoffspring are shown to be most important in difficult times where the salmon abundance is low to moderate.

[r392c3] row393 seq1 33w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
testing out the microphone for input via Docs. For whatever reason, it works here in Docs, but not at least not any longer for me, and sheets. So I will dictate text here.

[r392c4] row393 seq2 59w auto_about=Carroll;Sara Walker auto_disc=physics
today I listen to a Sean Carroll’s Mindscape podcast, for January 15, with Sarah… An origins of life physicist. This discussion is a Goldmine for statements about how little we know and how far from paradigmatic science we are in very important areas, including what an earth information is, what life is, and we might add, what consciousness is

[r392c5] row393 seq3 96w auto_about=Sara Walker auto_disc=physics;chemistry;biology
Sarah thinks about information all the time. Her take is different than many physicists, because she puts it, it may be that biology is prior to physics, since the physics that we have turned out emerged from biological existence. Moreover, biology might even be prior to chemistry in the sense, because life might have emerged at the biological level, not as a chemical level, although chemistry isn’t easier and less complex, though still stochasticDomain. Among her interest and claims is that the fundamental unit of life might not be the cell, but might be the world.

[r392c6] row393 seq4 94w auto_about=Sara Walker auto_disc=-
Returning to information, Sarah indicated that she thought information might be causal patterns that can be replicated from one entity to another. She may even have said causal power. A number of the things she said were reminiscent of Kristof coax insistence that a simulation is not the same as well as simulated, because the causal power is different. Simulations of weather cannot make it rain, etc. Simulations of life cannot do the things that life can do. Sarah sounded like that, that she did not cite the integrated information theory on this point.

[r392c7] row393 seq5 256w auto_about=Hoffman;Carroll;Tegmark;Sara Walker auto_disc=-
at another place, Sarah indicated that information was a limiting of possibilities. She referred to a table which was this and not something else. It says if she was trying to say, particularity, thisness, rather than otherness. This line of thought, that information is the exclusion of possibility, the particularization of what, of being?, seems a kin to the idea of a limited perspective. Especially against the background of fundamental consciousness, or is Hoffman puts it, conscious realism, a limited perspective, whether chosen intentionally, as we are selves can do,Or whether just existing in possibility space, either as one finite set among other finite sets, or some particular infinite’s, to reach above my mathematical ability. against that background, if we take possible sets to be at the same time actually, along the lines that Max Tegmark merged in his interview with Sean Carroll, then perhaps these finite sets contain in themselves the very exclusion of other possibilities that is characteristic of information. Perhaps these sets, theseCoherent sets of possibilities, are what information is. on this model, inside a conscious realism perspective, to be information is to be a perspective. This is very much in alignment with the claim that to be information is to be considered, which I have explored before. To be information is to inform, is another way to put it. An att ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r392c10] row393 seq6 92w auto_about=Sara Walker auto_disc=physics
Back to Sarah, she also notes that we have no idea how observers fit in with physical reality, no doubt referring to the observer problem in quantum mechanics. Otherwise called the measurement problem. there seems to be a direction to explore here, in which fundamental consciousness adopts particular perspectives, which constitute information, and somehow dynamic information, information about how things are and how they are changing, that is, by what laws they are changing, so that you get both a state matrix and an operational matrix as elements of a single perspective.

[r392c11] row393 seq7 184w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=physics;biology;neuroscience
I must admit that the conscious beings we know of are not consciously calculating the physical world around them, generating in conscious awareness what Donald Hoffman calls the desktop. That desktop might be in someway calculated by human cognition, but all that cognition may not be conscious, in the sense we normally mean conscious. But with Hoffman, if we take ourselves as conscious beings to be integrated into larger sorts of intelligences, that it may very well be that it’s at the higher level of consciousness that the calculation takes place, and we experienced that, when we look, if we studied, as cognition that somehow takes place in our world, by our us, in our brain, etc., but not consciously. That might be, not consciously to us, speaking from our limited conscious perspective. But as humankind, or as natural kind, to put it very differently, we might be part of nature, and it may be nature that’s doing the calculating, and we are a limited perspective inside that larger consciousness, or rather, a set of limited perspectives, you are one, I am another, etc.

[r392c13] row393 seq8 91w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
this larger, natural perspective, might be the set that constitutes the initial conditions and all the natural laws operating on them, which we are discovering, piece at a time, as we smaller perspectives grow into the larger perspectives, creating as we go, creating with that larger perspective, ultimately creating in space and time what is already present outside of space and time. we are in that sense call creating our way to a share in infinite perspective, participation as creator, as nor, as one, with a whole of infinite fundamental consciousness.

[r392c14] row393 seq9 26w auto_about=Aquinas auto_disc=-
It is worth remarking how this natural perspective is a lot like what Aquinas thought of as fate, the whole complex unity of the natural order.

[r392c15] row393 seq10 159w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
this picture borrows some fundamental features of consciousness, as described by integrated information theorist Poggio, such as a finite but unified, integrated field. Perhaps it’s the case that consciousness does not require any energy to unite inputs in a single field, though it may take energy for those inputs to take place. Running electrons across neurons involves resistance, as in any other wire. We’ve got 30 W, and that’s what we’ve got to Support the inflow of a couple of million sensory inputs, including 1 million million visual and 1 million from the body, 30,000 auditory, as I have recently heard. But perhaps each of these more limited perspectives, expressed as limited by energy and input, are part of larger conscious perspectives, themselves limited by energy, but not in the same degree that we are, so that the energy in the universe is closer to the limit Of the whole natural order. That is, of the whole conscious nature.

[r392c17] row393 seq11 156w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;theology
jumping to the theological, one might ask what the role is for this whole conscious nature, and perhaps other more limited or less limited holes, in the created order. Somehow, this seems too small for Christ.For this natural order is too small, it’s just one among many. Of course, my perspective is too small, one among many, and yet we say that I am Christ. Using such language,, I may be identifying with a whole of which I am apart. Not of course the physical part, but a conscious part, a limited perspective, someone who sees as if in a mirror, dimly, later to see as I am clearly seen, know as I am clearly known. From the perspective of one in time, I am limited, and not at the same extent. But that limitation in time is just the particular set that constitutes the particular perspective that is nature, and that is me in nature.

[r392c19] row393 seq12 96w auto_about=Sara Walker auto_disc=physics
Another line it came from the same podcast is Sarah’s observation that you can take the girl out of cosmology but you cannot take the cosmology out of the girl. She is pretty reflective about her own biases, and of course, information lying at the heart of everything is pretty near to her Central bias. She also points out that pursuing this bias may not take her in the right direction, but it takes her in a direction, that needs to be explored, even if it comes up in effect dry. Null results are still results.

[r392c20] row393 seq13 266w auto_about=Kuhn auto_disc=biology;philosophy;theology
This line of reflection, barely present in the in the podcast, brings up for me the question of theological reflection in this exploration. start with Thomas Kuhn’s observation the changes and paradigms, about for non-scientific reasons, for reasons that are theological, personal,…. The take I am exploring is that full human thought is dialectical, holistic. What you see when science jumps from one place to another place without a good explanation is in fact a thirst for a holistic explanation, which people are generally not accustomed to pursuing or slaking. So starting with a love-centered bias, one rooted in recognition that love is real, and that somehow outstrips what we can generate ourselves, but comes to us from the outside and from something greater, that instinct is a theological instinct, and it points to levels of consciousness that would outstrip our own. Starting from that bias, is a way of sweeping the possibility space, but not looking mindlessly, as if under the streetlight because it’s easier to find keys there, rather than the place they are most likelyTo be found. Of course, the love-centred bias can be like the street light, and like the place they are most likely to be found. We might adopt it because it’s comfortable, rather than because we think it’s true. Bad idea. But we might think it’s true, and we might sweep the space of possibilities for a whole w ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r392c23] row393 seq14 381w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=sociology
so let’s come back to this possibility, then, in which consciousness is fundamental, is real, is capable of infinite manifestation and find a manifestation. Let’s add to that, drawing from our ordinary experience that we can adapt limited perspectives intentionally, so interestingly enough it seems like limiting our perspective is what requires the energy, although connecting our perspective more broadly that it currently is also seems to require energy. What does not seem to require energy is entertaining what one already knows. Or better still, entertaining all together what one currently has, whether or not it is knowledge. Starting from that ordinary perspective, it makes a lot of sense to explore the idea of conscious realism, and wonder, precisely as Dial Hoffman is wondering, whether the rest of our experience can be driven from the mathematics of this very ordinary experience of consciousness. In Hoffman’s work, it seems like there is a very strong possibility that this could happen. So let Hoffman, and let others following often, conduct a research program, sweep that space. meanwhile, we ought to look at that program and see how it fits together with other programs that we are committed to following. This is precisely where the resurrecting civility project comes from. Information understood as what you are aware of, opens up the possibility of understanding social re ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r393c3] row394 seq1 169w auto_about=MacIntyre auto_disc=computer science;sociology
...continued from previous row, transposed from Google Docs: this information approach will be shown to have the power to incorporate and unlock the resources of the craft tradition model of rationality that Alastair McIntyre has developed Over 70 years and indeed is still now developing.But recovering these resources on an information processing model Points the way toward recognizing both the need for and service to the emergence of artificial intelligence. for both the education into a community, and the exchange of information across communities, can be observed, can be modeled, may even be able to be advanced through generative adversarial networks, and can be expedited with the health of artificial intelligence. The communities that emerge will have distinctive roles and distinctive sets of guidance for artificial intelligence, with optimized hope for achieving complementary agreement on principles to guide artificial intelligence. The resulting science advanced together by human beings in well ordered social interaction, and Hanst by artificial intelligent assistance, will together build a new science of computational natural law.

[r393c5] row394 seq2 161w auto_about=MacIntyre auto_disc=computer science;sociology
this information approach will be shown to have the power to incorporate and unlock the resources of the craft tradition model of rationality that Alastair McIntyre has developed Over 70 years and indeed is still now developing.But recovering these resources on an information processing model Points the way toward recognizing both the need for and service to the emergence of artificial intelligence. for both the education into a community, and the exchange of information across communities, can be observed, can be modeled, may even be able to be advanced through generative adversarial networks, and can be expedited with the health of artificial intelligence. The communities that emerge will have distinctive roles and distinctive sets of guidance for artificial intelligence, with optimized hope for achieving complementary agreement on principles to guide artificial intelligence. The resulting science advanced together by human beings in well ordered social interaction, and Hanst by artificial intelligent assistance, will together build a new science of computational natural law.

[r393c8] row394 seq3 326w auto_about=- auto_disc=philosophy;sociology
interactions inside a network of Rich communities with high information flaw among them promises a kind of progress that recognizes the value of diversity, plurality, and yet at the same time, movement toward, only were warranted, unanimity of perspective, even if unanimity for complementary sets of reasons. That kind of stable agreement produced in the interaction of Mature members of rival Rich Communities produces the possibility of emerging agreement, stable agreement, which suggests a candidate answer for what it means for something to be true. True claims are stable, and are parts of particular perspectives which are enjoined, adopted, by a number of people for a wide variety of different reasons. any important unanswered questions threaten to upset the stability, to challenge it, or better still, to reveal its falsity, which from the point of you of a truth seeker, truth in that sense, is ideal. You have not found the lowest potential energy state without shaking the system, stochastic gradient descent comes to mind here. We are walking our way down toward the minimum of the system, beyond any particular local minima, To what we might call the True minimum as far as this finite set of considerations as concerned. But when we add new considerations, we open up the possibility of new minima, Emerging from new sets of relationships. That feature of rational inquiry points t ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r393c12] row394 seq4 170w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;neuroscience;computer science;sociology
so the argument that takes has its foundation information processing on the information is awareness paradigm, must turn to information as considered throughout the sciences. This will require an investigation of physics, neuroscience, computer science, at least. Since those disciplines do not proceed without connection to one another, and other candidate relevant disciplines, it’s likely then if we can find an account of information that works in the social, at the physical, at the Nuro cellular, as well as cognitive neural levels. That account of information is likely to be useful for every other candidate to made of inquiry, since None of these areas of inquiry can proceed far without reference to the others. Are useful model in this regard is cannonballs chain together in a ring. Each of these cannonballs is a heavy lift by itself, but it gets all the heavier if you try to pull it too far, which requires moving the others. Together, they must be moved, or not at all, or at least not far.

[r393c14] row394 seq5 33w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;neuroscience;sociology
so the argument that’s emerging in my thinking is that this information as awareness paradigm helps us progress not just for social information processing, but in physics, neuroscience, and artificial intelligence as well.

[r393c15] row394 seq6 94w auto_about=Kuhn auto_disc=-
to make this argument, one has to sketch the central problems of each discipline, and show that the way forward seems to lie through the application of this approach to information. No paradigm shift begins with a solution to our problems, but rather with the reframing of problems so that there seems to be a way forward, some solutions, some new solutions to recognize problems, and some promise for moving ahead, even though there are sometimes new problems not previously recognized that come along with a new paradigm. this is all from Thomas Kuhn.

[r393c16] row394 seq7 134w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
Let’s begin with physics. I want to suggest that there are three important kinds of problems in physics, Including the nature of information, Which can be addressed in ways that contribute to this argument. Resolving that information problem on an information as awareness model promises to resolve also the other two. One of these is just the measurement problem of quantum mechanics, which can be rephrased as the role of the observer in quantum mechanics. I will make a possible case that the fundamental tenets of quantum mechanics can be re-interpreted in a sensible way through the lens of fundamental consciousness on the information as awareness model, in a way which transforms the measurement problem from the mysterious to the expected. Similar results will emerge for quantum and intrinsic uncertainty features of quantum mechanics.

[r393c18] row394 seq8 138w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=physics;biology;psychology
The Third fundamental problem in physics arises from the attempts to bring together relativity with quantum theory, which is focused around the idea of quantum gravity, these days. advances in string theory and name the other mathematical approach here have presented us with models in which relativity and quantum mechanics can exist together, in a space which may not be the same as ours. But those developments in mathematics have revealed a more simple mathematical construct in which space and Time no longer seem to be fundamental. Space-time is doomed, as some of its leading proponents say. But on the conscious realism/information paradigm that I will present, Space-time is not doomed, but rather is transformed, Following Donald Hoffman, to an interface for perception, one which from an evolutionary point of view has evolved for fitness, as Hoffman argues.

[r393c20] row394 seq9 205w auto_about=Hoffman;Tegmark;Sara Walker auto_disc=physics;biology;philosophy;psychology
But the perspectival interpretation of fundamental consciousness points toward a different account, complementary to but not exhausted by, an evolutionary perspective. Origins of life theorists like Sarah point out that we do not know what life is, or whether emergence of cellular life is the foundation for, or rather depends upon, emergence of holistic life, such as Gaia, or life at a planetary sized whole. In a similar way, Hoffman’s of account of consciousness is agnostic with regard to whether the larger is in any sense prior to the smaller, or the infinite, to the finite. Drawing on an account of features of consciousness brought to our attention by the integrated information theory of Poggio and Koch, I will sketch of metaphysics of Fundamental consciousness In which the infinite is prior to the finite, as well as an account of the origin of finite consciousness from the existence of finite sets which amount to limited perspectives of consciousness. Here I Will follow Max Tegmark in supposing that, as a suggested throughout quantum mechanics, whatever is possible Becomes actual, except in so far as limited consciousness averts its consideration, a process which can only happen in time, Which is always to say, from a limited perspective.

[r394c3] row395 seq1 25w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
...continued from previous row: reflecting on consciousness and our own experience of it provides some initial guidance to what might be present in infinite consciousness.

[r394c5] row395 seq2 13w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
There is moreover, a Telos which emerges from this Love-centric perspectival fundamental consciousness.

[r395c3] row396 seq1 366w auto_about=- auto_disc=psychology
...There is moreover, a Telos which emerges from this Love-centric perspectival fundamental consciousness.  So how exactly does a Telos emerge from a love centered perspective o fundamental consciousness. sometimes it helps to just say the words. If it's love centered, Then it is centered around active favor toward the active favor of another.  this isn't so hard to unpack even in ordinary language. I am spring wound to benefit those I love, and what benefit is for them is what they are spring wound toward themselves, in so far as they are well informed. That presumption of optimal information, enough information so that no more makes a difference to how you would incline, or toward what you will be spring wound, runs throughout this analysis. Active favorite or the active favor of another. this is my attitude toward those I love, but it seems to come, as one would hope love might,  into clearer perspective when you think about infinite consciousness. if what takes effort is to darken one's perspective, to limit one's View, then full transparency of possibilities is the basic state of consciousness, is the home state as it were of infinite consciousness. enjoyment of that state, inclination to  sustain that state, is characteristic subconscious life. Enjoyment is fundamental. in the case of limited Consciousness, when we can only take experiences in on say a 30 watt channel of  ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r395c6] row396 seq2 126w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology
But before we get to the question of creation, we need to get to the question of content, of specification. Toward what, exactly, are we inclined? With what will we be satisfied oh, and to what will we be inclined, if our limited perspective reveals that to us, that is to say, if our little 30 watt input system informs us about it, or rather, since information flows from our limited perspective in time, informs us about it in a stable way that endures over time, that is, informs us about it correctly, or adequately, or truly. toward what are we truly inclined, what are true human Goods? And not only human goods, but rather the goods of any conscious being of limited perspective like us?

[r395c7] row396 seq3 345w auto_about=Aristotle;Augustine auto_disc=biology;computer science;sociology;psychology
Love is our biggest clue. what is it that well-informed human beings want? What is the shape of the low potential energy well, the stable state, the way which is such that when one is raised up in it, she does not depart from it? Love Is The Answer. Love is the way. Every mother knows this, and every child is evolved to get it from the womb. And not just every human child, though in remarkably wonderful ways, human children. Active favor toward the active favor of another is exactly what happens At the very wellspring of at least mammalian existence, conceiving, birthing, and nurturing Young. This of course is nowhere near confined to the relationships the biological parents have with their children. It isn't even confined to children at all. Friendship, as Aristotle in the Nichomachean Ethics and Augustine in his Confessions, each in their very different ways, conveyed so eloquently, is all about another self. everything we do, in our meager 30 watt expressions of effort, in some way involves others, from language, to nurture, to planning, to execution, to Celebration, is communal. Love knits us together. it's not always easy to figure out how to do that well, but we are constantly calculating to address that difficulty, often times cognitively but not consciously, and other times quite consciously. What we are calculating is how to live together well. We are calculating the h ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r395c10] row396 seq4 213w auto_about=Aquinas;Tegmark auto_disc=physics
That participation in the whole can be well conceived as consisting in the simple logic of subsets. On a conscious realism account, being is conscious; consciousness is fundamental, and on the simplest of models, is the only thing that is fundamental. We learn from our own experience of consciousness that it is loving. We also learn from that same experience of limited consciousness that it is relational, and thus mathematical. If consciousness is enjoyment of everything that is actual, and if everything that is possible (not that seems to be possible to us, but that is internally self-consistent) is actual (following Max Tegmark’s intuition, here, forged in experience with quantum theory, that everything possible is actual, that existence adds nothing to mathematical possibility, and perhaps departing from Aquinas on the distinction between existence and essence), then consciousness is enjoyment of everything possible. The possible seems to split from the actual only when we abstract from the whole field of actuality, and consider only subsets (each of which is already considered, in its actuality, as fully and effortlessly (effort coming from energy expenditure, a function of our limited-perspective, space-time interface.) We are consciousness considering subsets of the actual. To be actual is to be fully considered; possibility is what lies outside of full consideration.

[r395c12] row396 seq5 231w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology;economics
Notice how a mathematics of intrinsic uncertainty (QM2) follows from LPCR : a mathematics of probabilistic value assignments (qbits), provides the latitude for calculation of outcomes consistent with the whole, when the whole cannot be seen all at once. We feel our way forward in the dark, based on optimization strategies (experienced by us as fitness, survival strategies) as we stumble upon by trial and error (experience) an efficient model of the whole which economizes our grasp of it, to fit within our limited perspective in space-time, our limited (human: ~30W) energy allotment for information flow. We are calculators of models, reaching forward for them (in thought, or in science as through matures and grows to be socially embodied) as on the 20-questions-creative model, and thus creators of models, which are our way forward into the stable harmony of experience of the whole, but with the efficiency of approximation arising of necessity from our limited perspective. In this way, consciousness under every limited perspective (that’s us, that’s created consciousness, in space-time, that is, operating under the space-time interface) participates in its limited way in the life of the whole, which is full awareness and enjoyment of the whole, which is actuality, which is of everything that is, which is (for us) enjoyment of everything that is (seems for us under emerging stable ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r395c14] row396 seq6 73w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;philosophy;theology;sociology
There is here a metaphysical grounding to why we exist, why our world of complex, interacting, limited creatures (creation, the created order, nature, our universe) exists. How this account of creation differs from or squares with other, traditional religious accounts is an important question, to be taken up in part III. But for now, from the limited perspective of that universe, there is an answer to why there is something, rather than nothing.

[r395c15] row396 seq7 143w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=sociology
Notice that an essential creative role of the observer (QM3) follows from LPCR. That fundamental answer is that actuality is relational; subsets exist, limited perspectives exist, and the universe is our evolved, calculated, best-yet-take on how to render the content of our limited perspective consistent with itself and with everything not yet considered, that is, beyond our limited perspective. (This is at the same time an answer to why the universe exists, and why science exists.) And it rests on a single premise, that fundamental consciousness exists, that is on what DH calls conscious realism, with the features that emerge immediately out of our own experience of consciousness (wholistic, preferential (enjoyable), transparent, relational, limitable/mathematical, communal, loving) interpreted as features of consciousness in itself, and with modifications due to our limited perspective (partial, not fully knowable/achievable and thus teleological and emergently social/scientific, sequential, spacio-temporal.)

[r395c17] row396 seq8 107w auto_about=- auto_disc=philosophy;history
This all sounds familiar, of course, to those acquainted with the history of philosophy and religion. But it also sounds like a fairytale. it has often been dressed up to sound just like a fairy tale, an Origins Story of fantasy and comfort, perhaps an opiate for the masses and for children, but not for the increasingly many trained to think hard about reality. But on the model of conscious realism, and more specifically, on the model of loving perspectival conscious realism, which adds nothing to conscious realism but rather interprets it in light of our ordinary experience of consciousness, there is nothing far-fetched about this narrative.

[r396c3] row397 seq1 28w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
// from The Story of Us: the sick giant (ch 10) WBW author cites The Big Sort to explain how we now live in echo chambers, self-selected. https://waitbutwhy.com/2020/01/sick-giant.html

[r396c4] row397 seq2 79w auto_about=Tim Urban auto_disc=physics;sociology
attend to the link with the echo chamber account in Social Physics, (sandy pentland) (here for space purposes:) "As The Big Sort author Bill Bishop puts it: “We now live in a giant feedback loop, hearing our own thoughts about what’s right and wrong bounced back to us by the television shows we watch, the newspapers and books we read, the blogs we visit online, the sermons we hear and the neighbourhoods we live in.” -WBW Tim Urban (TU)

[r396c5] row397 seq3 48w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
In her book Hearing the Other Side, Diana Mutz surveyed people from 12 countries and found that Americans “engage in political discussions slightly more than average” but are the least likely of all the countries “to be exposed to political beliefs and arguments that differ from their own.”

[r396c6] row397 seq4 127w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
Separation in ECs keep us from hearing rival accounts, true. But when we do hear them, we lack the skills to engage them: "Groups from Boulder, a predominantly liberal city, met and discussed global warming, affirmative action, and civil unions for same-sex couples; groups from Colorado Springs, a predominately conservative city, met to discuss the same issues. The major effect of deliberation was to make group members more extreme than they were when they started to talk. Liberals became more liberal on all three issues; conservatives became more conservative. As a result, the division between the citizens of Boulder and the citizens of Colorado Springs were significantly increased as a result of intragroup deliberation. Deliberation also increased consensus, and dampened diversity, within the groups." (WBW sick giant)

[r396c8] row397 seq5 67w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
But as WBW puts it, geographic bubbles are only the tip of the iceberg. Information bubbles are worse. As an aside, looking at WBW's image to the right, bias (as he made clear earlier in the series) is unscientific, un "higher-mind". "The North Star" is unbaised, the whole truth about reality. There's one of these, in the image so far, one "middle of the road" between baises.

[r396c10] row397 seq6 190w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
"narrowcasting" v broadcasting: "First, there was the birth of cable television around 1980, and with it, the advent of cable news. CNN (which literally stands for Cable News Network) launched in 1980. Cable channels, burdened with fewer regulations and hazier expectations than mainstream networks, could be more experimental with the way they covered the news. /  / Then there was the end of the Fairness Doctrine. In 1949, the FCC (the U.S. Federal Communications Commission) enacted the Fairness Doctrine, which required anyone who held a broadcast license to present controversial issues of public importance in what they called an honest, equitable, and balanced manner. In 1987, in the face of arguments that the Fairness Doctrine was in direct conflict with the First Amendment’s freedom of the press clause, it was revoked. /  / Not coincidentally, the demise of the Fairness Doctrine was soon followed by a sharp rise in blatantly politically biased media. Conservative talk radio exploded onto the scene in the late 1980s, most notably with The Rush Limbaugh Show, which debuted in 1988 and made Limbaugh the country’s most syndicated radio host by 1991. In 1996, Fox News and MSNBC were born."

[r396c13] row397 seq7 115w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
"Then the internet sprung into our lives, and with it, sites like The Drudge Report (1995), Slate (1996), The Huffington Post (2005), and Breitbart (2007), along with a trillion political blogs. The internet takes narrowcasting up into a new gear—full-fledged tribal media." "Ross Douthat’s view: “On late-night television, it was once understood that David Letterman was beloved by coastal liberals and Jay Leno more of a Middle American taste. But neither man was prone to delivering hectoring monologues in the style of the ‘Daily Show’ alums who now dominate late night. Fallon’s apolitical shtick increasingly makes him an outlier among his peers, many of whom are less comics than propagandists—liberal ‘explanatory journalists’ with laugh lines.”

[r396c16] row397 seq8 35w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
There’s a phenomenon called the “hostile media effect,” (https://www.researchgate.net/publication/281191995_A_Three-Decade_Retrospective_on_the_Hostile_Media_Effect)  which says that people on both sides tend to see the media as biased against their camp, even when they’re looking at the exact same coverage.

[r396c24] row397 seq9 58w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
"Seeing “DESTROYS” next to the name of a political figure you hate is kind of like seeing “SEX” next to a picture of a person you want to have sex with. An irresistible fishhook for the Primitive Mind."..."Its purpose is to combine three of the Primitive Mind’s favorite things: viewpoint/identity confirmation, outgroup bashing, and gossip. Primitive Mind crack"

[r396c27] row397 seq10 36w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
"If you’re thinking about politics without regularly asking yourself, “What does this look/feel like to the people I don’t know?”, you’re going to get a lot of things wrong. Which ultimately makes you less politically effective."

[r397c3] row398 seq1 91w auto_about=Tim Urban auto_disc=sociology
(TU SoU ch 10 ct...) Political bigotry is as real as any other bigotry. In a 2014 paper on political polarization in the U.S., Shanto Iyengar and Sean J. Westwood write: Hostile feelings for the opposing party are ingrained or automatic in voters’ minds, and that affective polarization based on party is just as strong as polarization based on race. We further show that party cues exert powerful effects on non-political judgments and behaviors. Partisans discriminate against opposing partisans, and do so to a degree that exceeds discrimination based on race.

[r398c3] row399 seq1 5w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
... caitlin johnstone's post https://caitlinjohnstone.com/2020/01/23/lucid-living/

[r398c4] row399 seq2 303w auto_about=Aquinas;Hoffman auto_disc=physics;neuroscience;computer science;theology;sociology
The conscious realism i've been considering (and every more fully trying on as a model for understanding all of life) arises as a potential solution to problems in neuroscience, needing a new model of consciousness (which many discuss (https://www.haaretz.com/world-news/.premium.MAGAZINE-we-d-tell-you-to-hold-on-tight-while-reading-this-but-there-s-nothing-to-hold-onto-1.7164814) but for which no one yet has a developed paradigm)) and quantum gravity (needing a replacement for spacetime (https://www.google.com/search?q=spacetime+is+doomed&oq=spacetime+is+doomed&aqs=chrome..69i57.6328j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8)  that underlies and generates it.) What johnstone articulates here reads to me like the subjective side of what neuroscientist Donald Hoffman calls conscious realism, his response to the problem of the neuroscientific basis for consciousness. His response: it's the other way around; consciousness is the basis for neuroscience, and for the space-time "desktop" interface that we generate (so far, DH; hereafter, me) to process information more efficiently from our limited perspective, expressed mathematically and generally as the laws of nature; specifically as individual experience as natural living beings. All of this (nature, our individual experience in nature, our evolving generation of the spacetime interface) is the experienced-as-temporal expression of conscious a ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r399c3] row400 seq1 103w auto_about=Hawkins auto_disc=neuroscience;sociology
January 31, 2020.The subtitle of Jeff Hawkins book, on intelligence, Makes reference to a new theory of brain intelligence. The question I want to explore is as he also pointed the way toward a broader theory of social intelligence. So let me try to say what his theory is about how the brain works, and what intelligence is. Let me then try to point to some analogues at the social level, And sketch a level of human intelligence which is fully social. It’s worth asking, whether that same extension goes further still, pointing toward a theory of global intelligence, or perhaps created intelligence.

[r399c4] row400 seq2 337w auto_about=Hawkins auto_disc=neuroscience;computer science
On Hawkins theory, intelligence is model based prediction. But models, in the brain, are different than the generally more simple mathematical/computational models that we know in Science. Models in the brain or more like memories, which is to say, Stored patterns which are very complex, hierarchically ordered, auto associative (that is, the whole of the model or memory can be called by a simple reference to the part), and have remarkable Fidelity across change of media, the way intervals In music can be preserved across changes of key. (Hopkins has a particular name for this feature of Cortical memory, which I should look up And use.) processing in the brain is something like throwing forward a very full model of the world As a predicted pattern, one characterized by all those preceding features, toward a modest amount of sensory input, which in turn generates a revised predicted pattern, The important thing to note here is that this predicted pattern is not a calculation from the previous sensory input; it’s way too complicated it happens way too fast for that. It’s more like a shift, triggered by a small amount of century input, the way entire function might be transformed by changing a single coordinate and operational matrix.To take a simple example, an entire function can be reflected from an upper right quadrant to a lower left quadrant by multiplying through by -1, So t ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r399c7] row400 seq3 67w auto_about=Hawkins auto_disc=computer science
For Hawkins, this kind of calculation is not the sort of thing which our current computer models do. There is no calculation on a detailed series of inputs; instead, there is a hole, which adjusts to expected series of inputs. We would have neither the energy, nor the time, to make the predictions we actually make, Unless these very different kind of pattern-rich, predictive calculations were performed.

[r399c8] row400 seq4 133w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience;sociology
remarkably, these predictive model calculations are not performed primarily by the brain as a whole, but rather, by thousands Of complete calculators working in parallel, not on separate parts of a problem being running parallel, but I am the whole prediction. Only once these many whole predictions are made, does the brain operate as a whole in reconciling them. To use the language Hawking’s users, there is something like a vote. It says if everybody is working the problem at the same time, and telling everybody else about it, in a big community of calculators. Once these messages are passed from one calculator, literally, from one neuro- cortical column, about which more must be said soon, To all the others, a single vote is made or rather at least, a single experience results.

[r399c10] row400 seq5 221w auto_about=Hawkins auto_disc=neuroscience;economics
Let’s focus for a minute on just one of these calculators. The calculating unit is a roughly 1 mm² by typically less than 3 mm high stack n of neurons which are interconnected with one another in remarkably complex ways, but in ways which themselves admit of higher ordered patterns, patterns which are different in ways that amount to six recognizable layers throughout each of these columns. This six layered columnation is repeated throughout the entire cortex, which, to put it simply, is where intelligence resides.To borrow one of Hawkins many excellent analogies, consider a business card, somewhere between two and 3 mm thick, with the sharpest of points visible to the eye made by a pencil, something roughly the size of a period. imagine that business card extending out in each direction until the hole is something like the size of a dinner napkin, and those periods multiply into the tens of thousands. Imagine each of these periods as an independent calculator, with amazingly complex connections throughout the entire six leveled stack of intern 10,000 neurons, each of which connected thousand of times to other neurons in other stacks throughout the entire surface area of this dinner napkin, which is our cerebral cortex. The number of connections made in a single human brain in this way numbers into the trillions.

[r399c12] row400 seq6 198w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;neuroscience
A remarkable feature about our brains, already suggested by the simplicity of the analogy just given, is that, for the most part, all of the stacks are the same. Moreover, all of their connections to one another are roughly the same. And so, also roughly the same, are all of the connections which link these to our sense organs. There are intern millions of such connections between calculators and century input in the brain: 1 million for a visual system alone; another million for all of our physical senses, amir 30,000 for auditory system, and many others, from a set of sensors which we in common language number is five, but in fact or more like a dozen. Think, for example, of the way we both here and keep our balance with our years. These are two systems, which we failed to distinguish in our ordinary listing of fights. Without running through all the details, the sort of distinguish ability applies to other senses too, and so we have a roughly a dozen such systems of input, each using tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of connections from the senses to each of our calculating cortical columns.

[r399c14] row400 seq7 180w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;neuroscience
just at this point, having introduced almost no distinctions in the physical arrangement between the sensory connections and the cortical columns, I have perhaps introduced too much symmetry. After all, our optical nerves bring senses from our eyes through the visual visual system which resides in the back of the brain, and proceeds upward through a hierarchy in different sections of the visual system. And so on for our auditory system, And taste, and sensory motor connections, etc.: each of these functions is located, famously, in different portions of the brain. Moreover, there are in fact two of almost all of these sets of functions, one in each of two hemispheres of the brain, With a relatively smaller number of connections from one hemisphere to the other, running together in the corpus callosum. a region small enough to be snipped by a surgeon, As sometimes is done to Prevent electrical storms from moving from one hemisphere to another In patients who experience quite severe seizures. and so the symmetry is broken in the brain, in quite a variety of ways.

[r399c16] row400 seq8 119w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
and yet this breaking of symmetry masks a deeper, underlying symmetry. For a turns out that for the most part, each of the calculated columns on a dinner napkin are the same. They are distinguished primarily by which particular sense organs connect up to each of them, and in what concentration. But it is quite possible to take any of them, and connect them up very differently than they have been connected, in effect rewiring the century inputs to these calculating columns so that those regions primarily responsible for processing each type of sensory input change with the rewiring. This has been done often in experiment on animals, and accidentally through brain damage of various types in human beings.

[r399c17] row400 seq9 216w auto_about=Hawkins auto_disc=neuroscience
The remarkable claim that Hawkins makes is that all of our senses produce from various sources information patterns which run across connections, sensory connections, which are fundamentally the same type of connections across all of the centers, merely carrying different patterns, but seating into these calculating cortical columns which are also all the same, all over the brain. Moreover, calculations based on these Sensory inputs, once they work their way up those cortical columns which are directly connected with the given type of sensory input, our intern shared throughout the brain, quite widely, though not at all with perfect symmetry. and so throughout the brain, many or all of these cortical columns are connected to the sensory input, either directly, or in some more highly processed way, from all of the senses. And so A very large number of independent though interconnected calculators are creating models with input from all of the senses, and creating, each of them individually, a model of the world. These models are intern shared back At a high-level across this network of calculators, with some large differences in the way this is done within and between our two hemispheres, so that in effect many opinions about what’s going to happen next or available to each of the calculators nearly at once.

[r399c19] row400 seq10 172w auto_about=Hawkins auto_disc=physics;neuroscience
This model of the brain as a whole neocortical network of independent calculators, Hawkins calls the thousand brain theory. from the account I’ve given it so far, he might well wonder why it’s not called the 10,000 or more brain theory, since there are many more than 1000 independent calculators. The answer to that question lies and yet another feature of brain operation, which is called sparseness. It turns out that we have enormous redundancy in the brain, and that very little of it is used for anything at any time. this relative dormancy peppered through with relatively distant activity turns out to be important for stability, for error correction, and for other features that fall out of the mathematics of sparseness. We need not go any furtherWith the concept of sparseness than that. So it turns out that at any one time, it’s roughly On the order of I thousand independent calculators, not tens or hundreds or thousands of thousands, that are Constructing and comparing independent models of the whole world.

[r399c21] row400 seq11 216w auto_about=- auto_disc=chemistry;biology;neuroscience;computer science;sociology
let’s consider this dinner napkin sized network of calculators, only sparsely operative at any one moment, and let’s wrap this whole network of calculators with all of the support functions and needs, like oxygen to catalyze the distribution of energy throughout the system, and a complex maintenance of a chemical equilibrium to support the many biological machines that do things like keep Things like viruses from Jumping in and disrupting the ordinary operation of the system. call this whole system of supported parallel holistic calculation, a brain. Will take a little deeper still, but we might pause and wonder already. We might notice, that it is in a very strange way rather like a community of calculators, of computers, of model creators, of perceivers. One might wander a bit further, and ask whether this whole network is a network of intelligent entities. And if they are intelligent, we might ask whether they are conscious. Is our brain or community of conscious entities? But here, we’ve gone very much too far, beyond What are crude model of the brain will support. So let’s make it a little less crude, and then ask the same series of questions again, in an attempt to understand what the brain is, what intelligence is, and indeed what and who we are.

[r399c23] row400 seq12 197w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
It turns out that in the account given so far, we have not yet provided enough input for our network of independent calculators. We have indeed wired them with a great deal of sensory input, recognizing specialization of connection with the senses, but also The commonality of input across the sensors, the flexibility regarding specialization with respect to kind of input (Alfred called neuroplasticity), and also the extreme degree of output sharing both within each of the layers and between the layers within each cortical column, in between cortical columns, so that in the end, whether directly or indirectly, all or nearly all of our columnated calculators receive input Of one kind or another from all of our senses. And yet our senses or not the only source of input that a human being processes. if we were to follow along and build a picture of you and intelligence on the same model, we would need to systematically identify the source of input to the system, and then, at least on a very simple model of the thousand brain theory sketched so far, simply distribute, either directly or after processing, the results from each source of input.

[r399c25] row400 seq13 136w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
We might suppose that in someway, we have already done this in the model we’ve constructed, since we more or less waived our hands at sensory input and all the levels of hierarchical calculation, all the processing that takes place with that sensory input. Here we could just take a shortcut, to look ahead, a shortcut we will later have to undo. thanks for a moment that we were on a hike, traveling in the woods along the ridge of a very high canyon wall. To see ahead, we might leave the woods for the wall, look across the section that we can’t yet walk, and get some idea of where we’re going, before reentering the woods and taking a different path toward that next phase in our destinations. So let’s take such a shortcut now.

[r400c3] row401 seq1 274w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience;philosophy;sociology;psychology
... Suppose we thought, for a moment, that every higher-level thought that ever enters our head is constructed from sensory experience. A lot of philosophers have entertained this model, but philosophers know who these figures are and the rest of us probably don’t much care. but let’s be like them, for a moment, and suppose that all of our thoughts, our perception not only of the green and the grass or the beauty of the grass, not only of our feet on the grass, but of our very souls, imagine all such thoughts are constructed out of century experience. To use the model as described just above, imagine All of what we might consider our higher ideas are Outputs of complex higher level processes, and that these ideas are shared across the brain quite widely and complex ways, within layers of each cortical column, between layers within each, and between cortical columns, distributed quite widely throughout the brain, so that all the calculators in her brain all have got, for example, a sense of personal identity, a sense of me, or you. if that were so, it wouldn’t seem so far-fetched to imagine our brains as communities not only of calculators, but intelligent calculators, and perhaps even conscious calculators. For here we wonder what it would be to have and process a sense of self, but not to be conscious. But let’s put that wonder back in the box for a moment Wander away from thi ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r400c5] row401 seq2 338w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience;computer science;sociology
Back now to intelligence. So far we’ve sketched quite lightly a view of what intelligence is, as model based prediction, and we’ve given an account Of what the brain is and how it works on which there is a very simple kind of symmetry at work. That really simple model, certainly Fails if you bore down very far Into the details, but perhaps It is quite useful and quite right as a higher level model. if that’s the case, then we will need to deliver some Plausibility regarding the big ideas that connect together in that model of intelligence and of the brain. I’ve already suggested that the brain, and indeed intelligence, are both community phenomenon We can understand them as a network of multiple model based prediction engines that take into account everything, not only the input from the senses, but also everything we call ideas, To assemble all models of the world and to predict constantly what comes next, not only at the level of what we will see here taste touch smell etc. but also of what your next be said, we are next to go, How next to feel, What it will next be like to experience what is about to transpire. Purposes here, hope is here, fear, love, meaning. Were there were a network of Computers which predicted at this level, we could no longer tell them, perhaps,From conscious agents, or from persons. Really? Could we be a network of persons? But that from a social point ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r400c8] row401 seq3 78w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;neuroscience
So is it all possible that all of our ideas are processed by a whole network of relatively similar prediction engines that receives their input first from the senses and then from one another as they process the input from the senses? A closer look at what we might call the world of ideas and their relationship to the input of our senses, Is needed, and it must begin with a little bit closer look at the brain.

[r401c3] row402 seq1 344w auto_about=Tegmark auto_disc=physics
A quick aside, to capture some phrasing on another problem: perhaps a possibility is a way which consciousness sees things could be.What makes some possible, rather than actual? Which possibility, perhaps, is a pattern of numbers which stand in relationship to one another, but which are abstract in from relationships to other values. What makes each of these subjects a possibility rather than an actuality is simply the abstraction of the part from the whole. on this model,Every possibility is actual from a point of view that is abstracting from no considerations at all. on this view, not only is the many worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics correct, but the much stronger version articulated by Max Tegmark is also correct, would also follow, And there would be no distinction in itself between what is possible and what is actual. Things are possible, rather than actual, precisely and so far as we consider them from a limited perspective. But our point of few, considered at this time, as a highly particularly abstracted point of view, and the logical unfolding of relationships between parts appears to us as the unfolding of space time. From that point of you, some things have happened no longer are. But that is precisely because we are no longer attending to them. put another way, we are not conscious as considering those things which no longer are; we are conscious as consi ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r401c7] row402 seq2 77w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;neuroscience
here I should note that I am not working backwards from some findings and physics that the universe can be represented as a hologram. I am rather working up from neuroscience,, plus a simple knowledge of what a hologram is. It’s a good analogy at this point. Whether it’s more than a Temporarily useful analogy, and instead plays an essential role In our best fundamental model of the universe, is a question to be taken up later.

[r401c9] row402 seq3 147w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
A quick reminder of who we are: this is a conversation to see whether we might achieve broad-based consensus about how to live together civilly, in a way which produces the wisdom we need to guide and leverage artificial intelligence toward that same end. This is not an academic exercise, but rather an investigation into a practical direction, one we could only take if there is broad-based agreement about the desirability of taking that road. That said, academic expertise is relevant at every turn, even if it might be handcuffed by the relative narrowness of the investigations undertaken in each discipline. The nature of intelligence, we might now say, is to develop a predictive model of the whole, many such models, in fact, and to work out the differences among these systems in ways that respond to the full set of information each has gathered and processed.

[r401c12] row402 seq4 58w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;sociology
next steps: grid cells, pattern recognition on the model of grad cells, and pattern recognition all the way up through sensation, contemplation. Good boy good boy. let’s keep also in the back of mind whether societies produce ideas in the same way, well it was a different sort of information sharing, short cut as social clues and language.

[r402c3] row403 seq1 121w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
The notion that all our ideas are processed in the brain using the very same circuitry as used to process what we perceive through our senses is in someways a sensible claim, in another way is not. On one hand, where else and how else might our ideas be processed, other than in the brain, and using the circuitry that the brain has? On the other hand, ideas are not things that we see, nor is there an evident since organ for them, nor connections between such an organ and the neo cortex Or any other part of the brain. So somehow, ideas seem different. And indeed, when we look at the details, we see That in some ways they are.

[r402c4] row403 seq2 334w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;neuroscience
turns out that a lot of creatures with brains do not have a neocortex, yet they sense the world quite well. The simplest I’m nervous systems seem to have evolved on the order of 1 billion years ago, or 10 of the ninth, Whereas the neo cortex is peculiar to mammals Who have only been around for a few tens of millions of years. That’s 10 to the seventh. The difference is 10 to the 2, or about a factor of 100. So for a very long evolutionary time, brains were processing input for the sensors using elements of their brains which are also in some ways, with some differences but not radically many, parts of our own brains as well. The neo cortex evolves much later, and our human brains are distinguished primarily by the sheer size of our neo cortex, rather than by any particular functioning of its elements. Our sensory input is not only connected to this older part of our brain, though it is, the so-called old brain (though it to has evolved and interacts with the neocortex in subtle and many not yet understood ways.) We will return to the question of how and why our sensory input is connected in the human neo cortex, in addition to those parts of the brain with which alone our lizard cousins must make their way through the world. We mammals have a much larger and more complicated system. But before we go to explore those complications and Peer more carefully into the neo cortex, let ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r402c7] row403 seq3 201w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;neuroscience
it turns out that essential piece of the processing circuitry in the old brain, ours included, Is it kind of location processing that takes place in A series of complementary navigation cells, (technically place cells, Grid cells, position cells, and border cells.). These clever systems work on a mathematics that enables tracking movement relative to certain other locations, either to fixed locations, or to other relative locations. Adrift at sea, I may have a little idea where I am absolutely, but be able to tell when a wave is turning my small vessel upside down. That’s an example of location tracking Relative to a relative location. Olympic divers on the other hand, not only know which way is up, but roughly how much time he or she has before contacting the surface of the water. That is location Relative to a fixed location. The clever mathematics embodied in These location cells enable these calculations, and not just for human sailors and divers, but for reptiles as well. These functions, and the cells That embody these functions, Reside in the old brain, and more specifically in the hippocampus and other regions of both the older and newer brain. (double check and footnote.)

[r402c9] row403 seq4 98w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;biology;neuroscience;economics
If our suspicions are right that relatively rapid evolutionary processes borrow from and trade on existing Structures to incrementally improve existing functions, We might expect to find grid cells in the new brain as well. And indeed these have been discovered in the neo cortex. Grid cells here also are fed by sensory input, through the same series of connectors (the same connectome) that runs sensory information first to the Grid cells in the hippocampus, and then to our friends the columnated cortical calculators scattered throughout the neo cortex. our question will be, what are they doing there?

[r402c10] row403 seq5 247w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;neuroscience;computer science
it turns out that the neo cortex has a very complicated memory system that both serves and is served by the older brain. At the sensory level, we cannot only sense that something has happened, but that we reacted to it in a certain way, with a certain result. Armed with such patterns, we might be getting to predict that matters will fall out similarly, all things being equal, in the future. And when our senses tell us that all things are not equal, we have a basis for predicting change in the future. Our sense of the past, including the patterns we discern in the past, our our means for seeing into the future, for making predictions. These memories become for us models for interpreting new sensory input and making new kinds of predictions. And all of that pattern recognition, taking place in the memory that is the neo cortex, Relies on and deploys the grid cells that are present, with some modification but chiefly very much more complicated interconnections, in the layers of our collimated cortical calculators. These memories and predictions outstrip the capabilities demonstrated by our cousins with nearly lizard brains. But rats and dogs and generally all mammals have neocortex capable of performing such computations and generating such predictions.Throw a ball three times for your dog, and then hold your hands behind your back, and watch Him predict. Watch him strain to get i ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r402c12] row403 seq6 151w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
We would be right to notice that our dogs predictions are not exactly in the realm of ideas. He has no idea of play. he can play, but he cannot tease. He can be teased, but he won’t really get it. so we have not yet come far enough on our journey toward understanding what ideas are and how they might be processed, but neither have we finished exploring even the fundamentals of the complexity of our neo cortex. For while all the basic cortical functions are present in our mammalian cousins, what a striking is how much less of it is present in their brains than ours. Whales are an exception to this rule of thumb, but no exception when we plot The ratio of cortical mass to body mass. for our size, we have a great deal more to calculate with than any other mammals, including our primate cousins.

[r403c3] row404 seq1 22w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
// fashioning a new republicanism...reflecting on Iowa caucuses...as they move to remote locations and times, why not caucus around multiple parties, nation-wide?

[r404c3] row405 seq1 48w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
returning to the idea of enjoyment, after a conversation with Patrick Mooney (2/23/20), in which he asked whether freedom, being surprised by joy, by grace, etc, isn't also part of our life, in addition to prediction, and (in the context of our conversation and his worry) of intelligence?

[r404c4] row405 seq2 57w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
my too-quick response: being able to predict response in love does not detract from the freedom or love of it, not one bit. This is true. ("Relect on our knowing expression of personal retrodiction, rather than surprise: "Of course he/she did".) This is an important point about freedom. But it missed what Pat was driving at, perhaps

[r404c5] row405 seq3 74w auto_about=Bloom auto_disc=-
Getting to his point, perhaps: IN moments of surprise, we experience a kind of delight. Isn't that enjoyment also a mark of intelligence? Isn't it cultured, in fact...becoming able to enjoy the best things might be thought the purpose (mistakenly, I think, but not without some real insight) the point of education? Here's Allan Bloom's reflection along a similar line, from his chapter on Music in the Closing of the American Mind, p. 79-80:

[r404c6] row405 seq4 261w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology
My concern here is not with the moral effects of this music —whether it leads to sex, violence or drugs. The issue here is its effect on education, and I believe it ruins the imagination of young people and makes it very difficult for them to have a passionate relationship to the art and thought that are the substance of liberal education. The first sensuous experiences are decisive in determining the taste for the whole of life, and they are the link between the animal and spiritual in us. The period of nascent sensuality has always been used for sublimation, in the sense of making sublime, for attaching youthful inclinations and longings to music, pictures and stories that provide the transition to the fulfillment of the human duties and the enjoyment of the human pleasures. Lessing, speaking of Greek sculpture, said "beautiful men made beautiful statues, and the city had beautiful statues in part to thank for beautiful citizens." This formula encapsulates the fundamental principle of the esthetic education of man. Young men and women were attracted by the beauty of heroes whose very bodies expressed their nobility. The deeper understanding of the meaning of nobility comes later, but is prepared for by the sensuous experience and is actually contained in it. What the senses long for as well as what reason later sees as good are thereby not at tension with one another. Educati ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r404c9] row405 seq5 264w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology
But this is a lost art. Now we have come to exactly the opposite point. Rock music encourages passions and provides models that have no relation to any life the young people who go to universities can possibly lead, or to the kinds of admiration encouraged by liberal studies. Without the cooperation of the sentiments, anything other than technical education is a dead letter. Rock music provides premature ecstasy and, in this respect, is like the drugs with which it is allied. It artificially induces the exaltation naturally attached to the completion of the greatest endeavors — victory in a just war, consummated love, artistic creation, religious devotion and discovery of the truth. Without effort, without talent, without virtue, without exercise of the faculties, anyone and everyone is accorded the equal right to the enjoyment of their fruits. In my experience, students who have had a serious fling with drugs — and gotten over it — find it difficult to have enthusiasms or great expectations. It is as though the color has been drained out of their lives and they see everything in black and white. The pleasure they experienced in the beginning was so intense that they no longer look for it at the end, or as the end. They may function perfectly well, but dryly, routinely. Their energy has been sapped, and they do not expect their life's activity to produce anything but a living,  ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r404c12] row405 seq6 173w auto_about=Bloom auto_disc=biology;neuroscience;sociology
But now watch (thanks, KT) Of Montreal's "It's different for girls": https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_WDugKPnlk. The very picture of Bloom's licensiousness, on the surface. Except for the joy, the freedom, the intelligence it expresses. At its extreme, Bloom's culture becomes Nazi culture: the approved, what the wise know, in their shameful ignorance. Somehow, Bloom's recognition of the role that evocation of the passions through the senses plays in education--making what is good, seem good--has got to be acknowledged while also acknowledging and avoiding not only the threatended loss of happiness of straightjacketed persons (as 10,000 pricks do for every crazy bitch), but also the threat of loss of information that these 100-trillion synapsed wonders of sensory-social exploration are hindered from discovering. Culture thus protects and threatens human dignity. The challenge of our day is to recover appreciation for the role of culture, of fertile sheltering of human beings as children, while empowering and setting them free as adults, at the same time, in ways that in some ways depend on age but in others, do not.

[r405c3] row406 seq1 10w auto_about=Friston;Carroll auto_disc=-
// Sean Carroll's Mindscape interview with Karl Friston (KF) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TcFLQvz5uEg&t=3907s

[r405c4] row406 seq2 11w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
the brain minimizes free energy, mathematical flip side of maximizing predictions

[r405c5] row406 seq3 141w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;psychology
TL: we seem to be a homeostatic system, like a jellyfish, floating through a sea of information, taking it in at a given rate (sensing, 30W, etc), processing it in terms of generative models (sensory input, fed to causal model, predicting new state (consequences, effects)) we have created from past encounters, (Matrix mulitiplication of operators on states to new states.) predicting next states, and minimizing surprise while also maximizing future applicability, which is to say, minimizing specific commitments which amounts to minimizing entropy (so KF's argument goes) while also minimizing free energy (experienced psychologically as surprise). We aim at some maximally applicable, optimally predictive (not never surprised, but overall not surprised...) Are we something like a disorder pump, gathering what order we can and increasing that order as efficiently as possible through our interaction with the sensed world..or, efficiently and enjoyably?

[r406c3] row407 seq1 10w auto_about=Friston auto_disc=-
// Lex Fridman with Karl Friston https://youtu.be/NwzuibY5kUs May 28 2020

[r407c3] row408 seq1 58w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
//quick aside on prediction: your brain works like amazon shipping: it doesn't wait until the last details are known. It predicts from what it last saw, and moves toward that future state with qualified anticipation, sometimes literally moving toward it, to make the future ("the best way to predict the future is to invent it" righs true here.)

[r408c3] row409 seq1 62w auto_about=Carroll;Chalmers;Kuhn;Tegmark;Tononi auto_disc=computer science
From Robert Lawrence Kuhn, Does consciousness require a radical explanation? What causes consciousness? Our inner sense of awareness is at once most mundane and most bizarre. No explanation makes sense. Here are three novel candidates for explaining consciousness. Featuring interviews with  Giulio Tononi, David Chalmers, Sean Carroll, Max Tegmark, David Wallace, Bernard Carr, Paul Davies Season 18, Episode 4 - #CloserToTruth https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=40gymxW9D-c.

[r408c4] row409 seq2 54w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=physics
Nice overview of various positions about the relationship between consciousness and the physical world. No consideration of CR, no interview or discussion about Donald Hoffman's idea. But otherwise, quite sensible, a nice overview. (Nice to hear an overview of the issue win which nearly all the figures and positions are reasonably familiar to me.)

[r409c3] row410 seq1 7w auto_about=Wolfram auto_disc=computer science
// Stephen Wolfram on AI Podcast __________

[r409c4] row410 seq2 2w auto_about=- auto_disc=computer science
computational irreducibility

[r409c5] row410 seq3 5w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
pockets of irreducibility enable understanding

[r409c6] row410 seq4 22w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
W has a theory abut how QM may work; a thread of human Cs relates to what we observe in the U

[r409c7] row410 seq5 26w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
What do you make of the mess w/ the observer at the lower level of events in the U? W agrees with LF: it's a mess.

[r409c8] row410 seq6 29w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
in trying to reproduce QM...it's mathematical structure, vis a vis our experience with definite things (which QM never delvers; only amplitudes of possibilies...): what's that relationship; that's a mess...

[r409c9] row410 seq7 229w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
all the imagined structureless structures are equivalent to SWs new idea of the structureless structure: a collection of numbers (pairs, triples...in a collection, unordered...that's the whole universe. when two tuples are the same, they are a relation. A graph is a connection between points (ordered tuples) on a graph, with edges that connect. So now, what are the transformation rules? See this tuple? Rewrite it as this one...this graph, to that one...Q is,what are those rules, that turn relations among numbers into our universe? (TL: that floating collection of unordered tuples, is a state matrix; a transformational matrix relates one state to the next; these are transformation rules...LF: what triggers the updating? SW: whereever the rules apply. You as observer don't know something has been updated, until you are updated, part of the causal network of what event effects what other event...no observer could be affected by the updating; the causal relationshs (whhich seem like llogical relations as he describes them) are the dependencies between rewritings...some can be done in any order, like factoring in simplification of expressions....Special relativity is implied by this rewriting, by the causal independence of the order of certain rewritings...time emerges from this system as an order of causal dependencies...(TL: time is how we experience these causal (logical) depende ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r409c12] row410 seq8 38w auto_about=- auto_disc=computer science
Q remains, what is the substrate on which the universe's computation is being run...we don't know, we dont' have access to that substrate...could we create a simulation on this codebase and thereby creatine a universe inside our universe?

[r411c3] row412 seq1 62w auto_about=- auto_disc=history
// a tweet I didn't send: Tara Reade’s Ex-Neighbor on Biden Sexual Assault Allegation: I Believed Her Then & I Believe Her Now https://www.democracynow.org/2020/5/1/lynda_lacasse_tara_reade_joe_biden via @democracynow. I believe her now, too. As for Biden, he should resign, given his central role in the history of public distrust of women accusers: https://theintercept.com/2019/04/27/anita-hill-joe-biden-non-apology/. Watch this full story, @JenGranholm, and then say "move on."  #bidenresign

[r412c3] row413 seq1 24w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=computer science
New Consciousreaslism.com website, featuring DH and KAH: https://www.consciousrealism.com/ Sent contact message this week; got DH reply sending F3 and asking for papers of mine.

[r412c4] row413 seq2 11w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
Expect to reply w/ ISTEM Community as precursor to politics: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1FEuC_58UoALwijLHCEpHtGgpbyYmFLsC/view?usp=sharing

[r412c5] row413 seq3 10w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=-
New DH paper: Fact, Fiction and Fitness (F3 - https://www.mdpi.com/1099-4300/22/5/514?type=check_update&version=1)

[r412c6] row413 seq4 27w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;psychology
F3: nice overview of homomorphic mapping presumption in perception theory, embodying correspondence theory of truth; puts this to the test clearly and carefully via evolutionary game theory.

[r413c3] row414 seq1 19w auto_about=- auto_disc=computer science
Also listing, same time as reading F3, to LF's AI Podcast interview with Ilya Sutskever (IS: co-founder, OpenAI): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=13CZPWmke6A

[r414c3] row415 seq1 31w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology
thinking about the evolutionary fitness function defined in F3, at the same time as the ML paradigm, and the two strategies (loss function, vs gaming strategy) that LF and IS discuss

[r414c4] row415 seq2 97w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;sociology
my question is, can we learn from either of these quantitative models (how ML advances using LF, or GANs, both from LF-IS) or evolutionary games (from F3) how to drive inquiry forward in measurable ways? Can we do that with a "pixie-dust on self-assembling social monolayer" analogue? See RC test 03 coversation with JP & JR, on pixie dust monolayer analogy. Can we present a theory (or at least a craft) of constructing a whole system of thought and practice (ultimately, a HIFNRCs) where constructions of FCs "pop into existence" through social catalysis (perhaps the RC podcast)

[r415c3] row416 seq1 4w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
musk on rogan: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RcYjXbSJBN8

[r415c4] row416 seq2 62w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience;computer science
neurolink: symbiotic relationship with AI; communication person-to-person without speaking; 1M-1B x speedup of data flow (from 100kpbs (max) to 100B or 100T exchange rates. But what's the brain's processing rate? Too much data that can't be processed isn't helping much. Perhaps assigning to grid computing becomes the new act, the new motor function: the brain picks up on how to do that...

[r415c5] row416 seq3 112w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;neuroscience;computer science;psychology
musk: starting with brain injuries solutions; JR: how many years to move beyond speech? Musk: 5 to 10 years...10 yrs more likely. // Musk, re/ ai: if you can't beat them, join them. // musk: could also save state, restore into a biological being...a little different, but so are we different with time.  "You'd certainly think you were you"... JR: could you hang out with 30-yr-old you? EM: possibilities are endless. Maybe w/ v10 neurolink, recall everything, visual emotional, etc, like a movie; edit it, if you like...this could be a replayed memory, now. JR: odds? EM: when you have a neurolink, the odds go up that this is a past experience...

[r415c7] row416 seq4 105w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
are we in a simulation? brain in a vat? (actually, you are: vat is your skull...everything is an electrical signal...) JR: constantly changing state with drugs...love, music...EM: where did consciousness arise? U started as mostly Hydrogen...13.8B later, that H became sentient...where did consciousness arise in that process? (JR: monkey-stealing monkey: is that conscious? EM: definitely to some degree...JR: not a worm...) Maybe we'll look back on this like we look back at worms....EM: hope consciousness propogates into he future, gets more complex...JR: you try to upgrade to an improved version (of you) now: this is an accelerated version...musk: can aspire to improve...to be less wrong.

[r416c3] row417 seq1 17w auto_about=Rohr;Julian of Norwich auto_disc=-
Julian of Norwich (1342 - 1442?): https://www.gutenberg.org/files/52958/52958-h/52958-h.htm  Rohr weekly summary of blogs on Julian of Norwich: https://email.cac.org/t/ViewEmail/d/980DC864FF287F1D2540EF23F30FEDED/B8222996A2E679602A1BF84ACBDD178B

[r416c4] row417 seq2 88w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
"From that time that the Revelation was shewed I desired oftentimes to learn what was our Lord's meaning. And fifteen years afterwards and more, I was answered in ghostly understanding, saying thus: Wouldst thou learn thy Lord's meaning in this thing? Learn it well: Love was His meaning. Who shewed it thee? Love. What shewed He thee? Love. Wherefore shewed it He? For Love. Hold thee therein and thou shalt learn and know more in the same. But thou shalt never know nor learn other thing without end."

[r416c6] row417 seq3 22w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology
"then I saw that each kind compassion that man hath on his even-Cristen (his fellow-Christians) with charity, it is Christ in him."

[r416c7] row417 seq4 102w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology
n her mystical masterwork The Showings, Julian shares that she used to obsess about sin. She couldn’t figure out why God, who is all-powerful, wouldn’t have eliminated our negative proclivities when he made the world. “If he had left sin out of creation, it seemed to me, all would be well.” But what God-the-Mother showed Julian in a near-death vision [during her thirteenth revelation] was that all shall be well anyway. Not in spite of our transgressions but because of them. [Or, as I like to say, we come to God, not by doing it right, but by doing it wrong. —RR]

[r417c3] row418 seq1 43w auto_about=Carroll auto_disc=-
// amendment of understanding about interpretations of QM: Sean Carroll's Biggest Ideas in the U series, on entanglement, gets to what he says are no longer called interpretations of QM, but rather foundations of QM, where all candidates are testable, falsifiable scientific theories

[r417c4] row418 seq2 119w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
Everett's Many Worlds, SC's favorite, consists of just two claims: there are wave functions in hilbert space, and they describe the world all the time. (Not until collapse of wave functions.) A second: Bohmian Mechanics, which adss to the wave function a series of particles and fields that exist independently but are guided by the wave function in their behavior, wholistically, that is, non-locally. (Bell was an advocate of this view when he showed that nonlocal hidden variables were excluded excperimentally (his theory, later done in experiment) by the behavior of QM systems. Holeness (and the Implicate order--Bohm's book title) is a nonlocal hidden variable, in effect. It adds to the wave function some specifying parameters which guide collapse...

[r417c6] row418 seq3 72w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;philosophy;psychology
Other theories think the collapse is an objective phenomena, either a random event (electrons decay randomly at imperceptibly small rates and induce collapse) or induced colllapse of some other kind. Yet another view is that QM is an epistemic theory; it doesn't describe the world, but rather our knowledge about the world. Quantum Baysianism is the old name, now Qbism, is such an epistemic theory. Find more in wikipedia article, SC says...

[r418c3] row419 seq1 21w auto_about=MacIntyre auto_disc=-
// wrote a new paragraph for wikipedia article on Alasdair MacIntyre, for the Three Rival Versions of Moral Inquiry book summary

[r418c4] row419 seq2 40w auto_about=MacIntyre auto_disc=-
it will be interesting to see what reaction is: I think this chapter (x) is among the most important in M's corpus, but was unaddressed both by the article and the summary of locus classicus in this book in particular.

[r418c5] row419 seq3 270w auto_about=MacIntyre auto_disc=sociology;history
The tradition-bound account of rational inquiry MacIntyre articulated and deployed throughout these lectures suggests reforms, explored by MacIntyre in chapter X, both for the lecture as a genre and for the university as an institution. To advance rational inquiry, MacIntyre argues that lectures ought to take account of the tradition-constituted roles both of lecturer and of student. Lecturers as members of explicitly articulated traditions should engage students, recognized as standing in various relationships to the lecturer's own and/or rival traditions, on material situated in the historically-contextualized progress of the lecturer's home tradition. In support of such lectures and of tradition-bound inquiry on the research front, universities should become forums for growing and engaging rival traditions. For students, such forums would invite intentional formation within a tradition, and support learning how to profitably confront rival traditions through imaginative participation in them. For researchers, inquiry at the frontier must advance toward holistic, inter-disciplinary accounts, at once both theoretical and practical, undertaken together by members of communities of practitioners bound together in traditions. Such tradition-bound inquiry contributes to the advancement of researchers' host traditions on their own terms. Moreover, undertaking such inquiry in a refo ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r419c3] row420 seq1 15w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=-
// relfections on moving through DH's F3 paper in podcast format on May 18: https://youtu.be/qoODTATf0GI

[r420c3] row421 seq1 25w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
// revisited the idea of a set of skills with associated rubrics for four stages of development:  SS, UG, Grad/Early Career, and Civic/Professional Maturity: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S_tYN8NKBmuJH7395l5n77RPVSxvcIG-kx6G6Ja0lXY/edit?usp=sharing

[r420c4] row421 seq2 27w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
this list aspires to be a roadmap for adulthood. This particular one is a generic US-based map (unfinished even in first draft, for the 4th (maturity) stage.

[r421c3] row422 seq1 6w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
// introduction to live podcast series

[r421c4] row422 seq2 248w auto_about=MacIntyre auto_disc=computer science;theology;sociology;history
This video introduces a podcast series (a Zoom conversation, broadcast live to YouTube) focused on the creation of a new science of computational politics. That science emerges from the creation of a high-information-flow network of rich communities. In a rich community, information drawn from (optimally) a full range of experience about the world by members united in a common worldview is parallel processed in communities that become richer through growth in ordered causal contact with the world as they progress. As Alasdair MacIntyre has taught us, the incommensurable differences that emerge between such communities can be overcome through information exchange that preserves such causal contact, with the historical record of such encounters between rival traditions constituting a new source of data for a new master science. This new science fills the role of Aristotelian politics, but enriched by all that we have since learned about the sciences generally and about computational science most recently. Because such a science aims at a fully integrated theoretical and practical account of the world, it requires not only new forms of communication among disciplines, but more fundamentally new forms of social arrangements where the emerging implications of thus-far-successful world views are lived out in communities whose understanding and values these worldviews express. This di ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r422c3] row423 seq1 17w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
// https://itlaw.wikia.org/wiki/Information_provenance information provenance is an established legal concept that could be leveraged in a HIFNRC context

[r422c4] row423 seq2 36w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
what would a mature member of a rich community want to know, about a given communication? (This is an application of the virtuous person standard, which is an application of a maximal contact with information standard.)

[r422c5] row423 seq3 42w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
suppose inforrmation were produced and certified by an organization which sought to adhere to standards: that it was produced by persons accepting the following world analysis and value set...which then gets specified, and attached as metadata to the information that organization produced

[r422c6] row423 seq4 101w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
PoP: isn't Sean Connolly, for example, running a PoP publication office, in effect something like a known filter in this way? His work is read by a larger group of mature members. It is possible to state roughly what that group of mature members accepts. If Sean's office were publishing news for general consumption, it would be helpful to know "where they were coming from". Couldn't this be stated in some standard format? If not a neutral standard format, then some commonly accepted format with exceptions identified in some agreed-upon exception class (agreed upon perhaps for different reasons, by different groups...)

[r422c8] row423 seq5 48w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
Isn't there a broadly cultivatable desire to know or have access to such background for claims made publicly? There's a right to full information provenance brewing here...a need, it is in the best interest of all to satisfy...of all, according to some set of signatory communities and organizations...

[r423c3] row424 seq1 152w auto_about=- auto_disc=computer science;sociology
QQ: can we quantify the amount of information a tradition has stored, or the amount that impacts the choices of its mature members? Is information quantity preserved across exchanges between mature members of rival traditions? Does it matter how many people repeat the formation in a tradition, or is there a theory of kinds that rendes some experience redundant, other kinds of experience as addititve? Can there be some cross-cutting, general if not neutral standard of how to categorize formative vs redundant quantities of information processed? Can CS help us here: isn't there some obvious processing analogue: repeating the same computation multiple times adds value (statistical confidence in repeatedly arrived-at answers) but not endlessly so? Whereas other kinds of computation are additive: they actually break down a problem and contribute some part to some whole, rather than some confirmation or alternative analysis of the same (or thought to be the same) input?

[r424c3] row425 seq1 19w auto_about=- auto_disc=computer science
// crazy ideas: partner with Lex Fridman; introduce him to Richard PhDhc, build together a science of computational pollitics

[r425c3] row426 seq1 10w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=-
listening to Sam Harris (and Annaka) interviewing Donald Hoffman: https://samharris.org/podcasts/178-reality-illusion/

[r425c4] row426 seq2 27w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
their interview is sympathetic, esp on Annaka's part. This has attracted some strong criticism, notably this (tongue-in-cheek?) exploration of whether the whole broadcast was a hoax (https://medium.com/@hermessolenzol/did-sam-harris-just-play-a-hoax-on-the-listeners-of-his-podcast-8da39a01b1dc)

[r425c5] row426 seq3 88w auto_about=Hoffman;Arkani-Hamed auto_disc=physics;biology;psychology
early on, Annaka, DH, and seemingly SH come to agreement that DH's case is not against reality simpliciter, but rather against S-T or any perceptually-grounded appearance of reality. His argument is that evolutionary theory points to this same conclusion as NAH and perhaps most physicists have come/are coming to accept. DH admits that there may be/ must be? a homomorphic mapping of reality onto our perceptions, but that map is not between our perceptual interface and our conscious experience, but between some deeper reality and our conscious experience.

[r425c7] row426 seq4 152w auto_about=Hoffman;Arkani-Hamed;Wolfram auto_disc=physics;biology;computer science;philosophy
Q: is there a third avenue--complementary to the  press for consistency in physics, and beyond evolutionary theory--to that same conclusion, from philosophical analysis of truth? This is the implication route (beyond suggestion) between an account of truth undergirding computational determinism (which may have been well stated by Stephen Wolfram in his philosophical introduction to his Wolfram Physics Project)--basically the possibility that a HIFNRCs could compute an answer, or at least limit the range of answers, to clustered conscious responses to the world as a whole--and conscious realism. But if this is right, in a single move, this argument defines the space which DH is exploring by instinct (reading the signs of the times from the intractability of the hard problem of consciousness, so turning that problem on its head), and NAH (physicists) are exploring by mathematical induction (it seems: exploring mathematical spaces that render contemporary physics consistent over QM and relativity, roughly.)

[r425c10] row426 seq5 65w auto_about=Hoffman;Arkani-Hamed auto_disc=physics;biology;philosophy
Let's construct a tiny little curriculum around this question: something like 1 DH lecture; 1 S&AH interview with DH; and NAH's SLAC lecture or perhaps also his introductory lecture to his Fall 2019 course at Harvard.) Then add to that (for the general public) perhaps the last RC podcast, plus the next one, outlining these three approaches (evolutionary, physical, and philosophical) to the CR hypothesis.

[r425c11] row426 seq6 145w auto_about=Hoffman;Arkani-Hamed auto_disc=physics;biology;neuroscience;computer science;philosophy;psychology
meanwhile, add a metacognitive discussion on the nature of the argmentation that is being employed here. This is dialectical argument (computation), which is something like induction across efforts to construct whole systems, from each of which conclusions follow through deductive reasoning from premises anchored on account of their role in producing such productive whole systems. In physics, this is what NAH seems to be doing during the epistemological crisis produced by the conflict between QM and Relativity (put at the public lecture/Brian Green level.) This is how DH is reasoning, away from the contradictions entailed by conjoining evolutionary theory, mathematics (logic) and even limited perceptual (naive:) realism, away also from the logjam engendered by the hard problem of consciousness conjoined with findings of cognitive neurooscience (NCs only, but no real explanation of Cs, even when starting with Cs as IIT does), toward a CR alternative

[r425c14] row426 seq7 181w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;neuroscience;computer science;philosophy
after exploring the dialectical argumentative road to this conclusion (this beginning, which is the whole), also explore via an awareness field, with low potential energy points around insights; with building structures stabilized by building from these local minima, enabling construction of towers to see a larger sector of landscape, with epistemological crises occurring when a stable structure enables recognition of a new challenge it cannot accommodate in its model. Make the analogy with stochastic gradient descent from an ML context. (Is this an analogy, or a component?) Grab the technique of popping higher (taking larger minimum steps) to find too-numerous and unhelpful local minima vs minima across larger areas. What's the measure of stability? Insight: explanatory power (in us); frequency of occurence in more successful alignment strategies with ground truth; that is, the error function forcing in ML (aligned with prediction in the brain). These need not be the same algoritms (brain, to back propogation in ML), but they might perform the same logical function in the awareness field, which is constantly computing with existing limited resources how to enlarge itself.

[r426c3] row427 seq1 234w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology;sociology
// the whole of you which is conscious is not the whole of which you are conscious. We as conscious beings are more than that of which we are conscious. Our coming to know ourselves, our discovery of NCCs, are both dimensions of this limited self-awareness. Long traditons of becoming through growth in self-knowledge testify to this reality. So also, in another way, do traditions that treat self as illusory. They too find that conscious discovery is possible. What they think they discover--that the self is not real--may be better interpreted as discovery of an underlying unity among conscious beings that takes us beyond self. But this need not be interpreted as a denial of self, but rather a fulfilment. My personal love for you individually will remain precious to you as you mature in self-knowledge, or if you prefer, as consciousness matures in conscious knowledge. Each limited personal perspective is precious, far from unreal; rather, each reveals accurately--not falsely--the deep interconnectedness that runs through the whole fabric of consciousness, which is God. Each of us is God experiening what it is like to be us. This is no small part of the divine life. Love attends to these details. A mother's love for her child is of this mother for this child, wonderfully and irreducibly and completely. Models that miss this particularity may capture something else wonderful, but fa ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r426c6] row427 seq2 71w auto_about=Aquinas;Rohr auto_disc=theology;sociology
// these thoughts were stimulated by Richard Rohr's blog Week Twenty-four - Inner and Outer Freedom - Freedom: An Infinite Possibility of Growth - Monday,  June 15, 2020. The guest author cites Meister Eckhart, reflecting on how our being is received from God, the giver of being. Whether and to what extent the perspectival CR approach is compatibile with this traditional Christian analysis (Aquinas's, too) is a good question. MORE HERE

[r426c7] row427 seq3 293w auto_about=- auto_disc=computer science;theology
This perspectival CR is als related to the many worlds interp of QM. On pCR, many worlds seems false. To be is to be considered. There are many realms of possibility which are NOT considered, and which do not thereby exist on pCR. What is considered is what is being calculated from limited perspectives. Mistakes are made during the computation, but not every mistake is made, and that's the point...to arrive from a limited perspective at the whole, as well as possible. This is God's wise and loving rule among creatures, and among creatures in our S-T universe in particular. (We should expect that there are others, but off from our current perspectives, perhaps added in later through conscious bridging, which is what revelation seems to be. ("In my Father's house there are many mansions, were it not so, I would not have told you (that it is.)") When we calculate rightly (lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil) from our limited perspectives (hence faith's importance--never rely on what you think you know...remember the Lord...) we actually make a difference in the world...not just our branch of it. There are other ways things might be--other computational directions--that lead toward the wrong answer. Even from our limited perspective, we need not make every mistake. Neither "christian" fatalism ("being good is just a fable; I just can't, cause I'm not able": don't  ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r426c10] row427 seq4 169w auto_about=Wolfram auto_disc=theology
You, Christ the particular, integrated personal perspective uniting every perspective in S-T, are begotten (including all of time), not made (considered as the unfolding of timeless implication throughout the flow of implication -- Stephen Wolfram's account of time, causality are helpful here), one in being with the father, a limited, timeless consideration of the whole set of perpsectives that constitute our space-time, the whole unfolding (for us) and unfolded (as begotten, as whole) wonderful, precious, highly limited perspective, all intense enjoyment of all the particulars , each of which is intense enjoyment of the whole, as those in love see, when they see that those whom they love are in a way everything. So they are; they are the divine life, writ here and now, this limited perspectival window into the whole. That whole is ever more fully realized as we work out how to love one another, which binds everthing together, and is itself personal, and thus loved, binding together all the beloved it beholds and actively favors.

[r426c12] row427 seq5 243w auto_about=Tegmark auto_disc=-
So Max Tegmark is in a way right: every possbility (on pCR) is actual...but actual as considered on the way to an integrated, loving, whole perspective. Not everything that can be considered, will be considered, as we experience as we contrain our loving reflections on where and how to proceed away from possibilities we can--may start to--consider, but pull back from. it is not good that I engage in a preditory relationship with my brothers and sisters, and I will not do so. This is a calculation--I've been raised up in the way I should go, and as older, I do not depart from it--though there are many truly good things about many of those ways that are not the right ways. I see these goods, but also recognize something falling short in them as ways that should come to be. So I resist, and these active possibilities flee from me. I rebuke them, actively, perhaps habitually or perhaps decisively (sealing the choice with a kind of intense inclination, made more so by energetic reflection on the consequences I wish to avoid, rather than on the goods that attract in that option set. I build up activation energy against reconsideration of those options, both cognitively and noncognitively, considering personally and intensely, but also culturally, making choices to pursue conditions that hold together enough good things (reputation, commitments...) as to make these errant option sets  ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r427c3] row428 seq1 7w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
on physical explanation for thought, purposive activity

[r428c3] row429 seq1 27w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
on neuroscientific findings and free will: see this paper: Free Will and Neuroscience: From Explaining Freedom Away to New Ways of Measuring It Andrea Lavazza 2016  https://dochub.com/drthomasjloughrantom/1XEpyxzwNG95ygZRQZGd38/free-will-and-neuroscience-from-explaining-freedom-away-to-new-ways-of-operationa?pg=3

[r429c3] row430 seq1 56w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=psychology
// trying to read DH 2014 paper ("Objects of Consciousness" in Frontiers in Psychology), saw that I came up short (again) on basic information theory. Spend the day doing Kahn Academy introductions to information theory. (Settled there, after a wikipedia on mutual information, etc, showed how far from able to read this stuff I am. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutual_information

[r429c4] row430 seq2 99w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
Q: Shannon information is a measure of surprise, a consciousness concept. It is associated with a kind of entropy, which is something like negative surprisingness. So what is the relationship between Shannon entropy (if that's a thing) or Shannon information, and the sort that is at play in modern physics? I had seen these multiple meanings before, but attended less to the consciousness roots of Shannon's account. There must be an observer-independent account of entropy/information, or at least an attempt at it, else an important physical quantity would not exist prior to observers, which is the prevailing physicalist paradigm

[r429c6] row430 seq3 140w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
Note that efficiency in prediction (shorter information requirements for transfer) comes from expected patterns in sequences. Does this point to an overall information processing efficiency when rich communities, with a great deal in common and thus a great deal of information processing efficiency, specialization, in effect, in an overall point of view, work hard to develop a single set coherent set of solutions, rather than communicating across RCs at every level, where expectation is low. Mature members, grasping a whole, are best able to process someone else's whole, recognizing it as a whole, familiar with dependencies across areas, etc...Information would seem to get gathered, built up into mature wholes, compared at the top (mm1-to-mm2, etc) and with results dissemiated back down maturity chains (by those with maximal rhetorical efficiency in leading those like them to a new, transformed maturity (mm12).

[r429c9] row430 seq4 57w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
Could these processing efficiencies be quantified? Can this be done already, to some extend, in cross-disciplinary scientific studies? Are interdisciplinary exchanges among more mature practitioners measurably more efficient (paper production as measure? Or better, combined citations of cross-disciplinary coauthors...) Has this been done (why not) as a CS project? Does it point to measurable efficiencies in HIFNRCs?

[r429c11] row430 seq5 84w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
"The idea is that a theory of objects requires, first, a theory of subjects." From this 2014 OoC paper. Also: "“The relevant literature is famously contentious and obscure. I believe it will remain so until someone constructs, within the formalism of quantum mechanics, an “observer,” that is, a model entity whose states correspond to a recognizable caricature of conscious awareness ... That is a formidable project, extending well-beyond what is conventionally considered physics” (Wilczek, 2006) (Frank Wilczek, winner of the 2004 Physics Nobel Prize.)

[r429c13] row430 seq6 182w auto_about=- auto_disc=psychology
"One can think of a Markovian kernel as simply an indexed list of probability measures. In the case of perception, for instance, a Markovian kernel might specify that if the state of the world is w1, then here is a list of the probabilities for the various conscious experiences that might result, but if the state of the world is w2, then here is a different list of the probabilities for the various conscious experiences that might result, and so on for all the possible states of the world. A Markovian kernel on a finite set of states can be written as matrix in which the entries in each row sum to 1"...."A Markovian kernel can also be thought of as an information channel. Cover and Thomas, for instance, define “a discrete channel to be a system consisting of an input alphabet X and output alphabet Y and a probability transition matrix p(x|y) that expresses the probability of observing the output symbol y given that we send the symbol x” (Cover and Thomas, 2006). Thus, adiscrete channel is simply a Markovian kernel."

[r429c15] row430 seq7 176w auto_about=- auto_disc=psychology
"So, each time a conscious agent interacts with the world and, in consequence, has a conscious experience, we can think of this interaction as a message being passed from the world to the conscious agent over a channel. Similarly, each time the conscious agent has a conscious experience and, in consequence, decides on an action to take, we can think of this decision as a message being passed over a channel within the conscious agent itself. And when the conscious agent then takes the action and, in consequence, alters the state of the world, we can think of this as a message being passed from the conscious agent to the world over a channel. In the discrete case, we can keep track of the number of times each channel is used. That is, we can count the number of messages that are passed over each channel. Assuming that all three channels (perception, decision, action) all work in lock step, we can use one counter, N, to keep track of the number of messages" / that are passed.

[r430c3] row431 seq1 263w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=computer science;sociology
// adding something here to DH's CR: if to be information is to inform, is every possibility a state of consciousness, nothing else? Are states of consciousness interrelated in ways that form larger awarenesses, larger states of conscious? Is particular agency (conscious identity), consisting of personal enjoyment, freedom to interconnect, explore, build) just a consequence of particular, limited perspectives, just existing connections considered as abstracted from other connections, every possibility potentially connected with every other, some in preferable sets, some in less so, all in a calculation of mutual enjoyment (love), with particular sets driven to connect as particulars with the whole, that drive existing timelessly in the whole unified infinite combination of possibilities, but experienced as in time by each limited interconnected set of possibilities? A community of infinite possbibilities, infinite persons, each a combination from 1 to infinite, connected in infinitely many ways, each in turn an infinite person but interconnected in particular orders (all those possible), but computing from their limitedness how to find a way forward to the fully interconnected from the initially only partially so...Not every route is desirable, but the computation does not find the preferable ways forward except by the particular computational route that gets it to those prefer ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r430c6] row431 seq2 37w auto_about=Wolfram auto_disc=-
Still the question arises, what is the source of particularity, of distinction? What breaks the symmetry of each possibility? Perhaps the answer is ordered pairing (n-tupling) along particular patterns of combination. Here think of Wolfram's cellular automata.

[r430c8] row431 seq3 48w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
Pehaps in the particular unfolding of the various mathematical rules that exist, some produce similar, repeating patterns (of us), like one another but distinct under that rule, distinction ways we experience as S-T asymmetries (difference), even though much alike, like a repeating patterns in the rule 30 unfolding...

[r430c9] row431 seq4 40w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
But perhaps each of these possibilities, connected and filled out under some mathematical unfolding under some particular rule, is a possible state, a conscious state, interconnected with some but not yet all under this unfolding... watch for 5 minutes: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_W-n510Pca0

[r431c3] row432 seq1 11w auto_about=- auto_disc=computer science
// LF's AI Podcast wi Ben Goertzel:  mentions Philip K Dick

[r431c4] row432 seq2 64w auto_about=Hoffman;Wolfram auto_disc=biology;computer science
opencog architectures, metagraphs, weighted and interlinked hypergraphs and links, could be used to advance Wolfram's project; Ben Dryvus (Louisiana) had a related book, done earlier; could use it to model biologically realistic neural networks...Q...can it be used to explore DH's networks of conscious agents? Seems perfect. Can have process-, neural network-, logic- links; can contain programs; find a video presentation on what is opencog.

[r431c5] row432 seq3 35w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;neuroscience;computer science
need a graph chip; coming soon; graphs put on chips; may do for opencog arch what GPUs did for graphics processing; // neuromorphic computing should be amazing, but not there yet...biologically realistic hardware neural network...

[r431c6] row432 seq4 44w auto_about=- auto_disc=computer science
Has a type system sitting on top of the opencog system, switchiing from predicate logic to term logic (simple links between nodes): eg: A-->B B--C thus A-->C. Can have neural net links tied to logic links...(Kerry-howard isomorphism: proofs and programs map onto one another.)

[r432c3] row433 seq1 22w auto_about=- auto_disc=computer science
on PK Dick: https://www.theverge.com/2012/10/1/3424828/philip-k-dick-festival-science-fiction-change-your-life  For the AI-literate, there may be no more effective initial testimony to the power of love than this.

[r432c4] row433 seq2 161w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
“Jonathan Lethem notes how often, within their flawed and fallen worlds, Dick allowed his characters moments of humane grace. "There are a couple of his books that end with this uncanny expression of sudden, absurd, human connection of love — against the odds of which the entire book may seem to have been stacked." says Lethem. One example is Now Wait For Last Year. [Spoiler alert from here on out.] At the end of the novel, Dr. Eric Sweetscent finds himself in a taxi with his wife, Lethem says, "I mean, this is a wife as bad as American literature has ever presented, whether in Philip Roth or anywhere else...She's been destroyed by a drug she's taken, which is also a drug she's slipped into his drink at one point, in what is in some ways tantamount to a murder attempt. She's shattered her own and several other people's realities as well as their marriage by the end of this novel."

[r432c6] row433 seq3 161w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
Now she’s falling apart, giving him the opportunity to discard her, to get away, which he’s tried to do throughout the novel. "And the cab is a mechanical cab; it's a robot," Lethem explains "so Dr. Eric Sweetscent, in the way that characters in Dick have to do, is walking this inanimate object through the terms of the human condition: 'You know, you're a cab, you're a robot, you don't really get this, but she's horrible and I'm sad and this has all been so terrible and yet here she is, she's destroyed.' And the cab is listening to him, basically functioning as Freud would claim a therapist ought to: as a kind of impassive mirror. And the cab says, 'What I hear you saying is you have no choice.' And he says, 'What do you mean? No choice but to leave her?' And the cab says, 'No, I hear you saying you have no choice but to love this person.'"

[r432c8] row433 seq4 119w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
In the retelling he takes a moment here. There’s a hitch in his voice as he looks up and away, blinking a few times before continuing. "And, uh...that's as good as it gets," he says, "It's still as powerful a vision of the uncanny property of connection and love and empathy against the vortex of nihilism and despair and existential bleakness that the universe is. I don't even want to say it's hard-won, because I don't know how it's won. It's like claimed without being won. That's the essence of Dick. He claims love against a backdrop of its impossibility. He claims connection and empathy against a demonstrated nihilism. And that, for whatever reason, is the persuader for me."

[r434c3] row435 seq1 63w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
quick calculation: totals meetings. Start w/ PoP: 40 years (better, 43) x 50 weekly mtgs/year + 50 MGs/year = 4000; headship 1/mo x 12 mo x 40 years = 480 mtgs; there's ~4500 meetings total. (Not counting weekly prayer meetings...hundreds more; teaching series (over 100 more); 4800 x 4.3/4 = 5100;  call this 5000 PoP meetings (x 1.5 hr/mtg); hours calculated below, throughout...

[r434c4] row435 seq2 14w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
NDQC: 40 mtgs/year x 12 years is roughly 500 teacher meetings (x 1.5 hr/mtg)

[r434c5] row435 seq3 41w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
classes: 75 university sections x 2.5/week x 45 weeks = 8437.5 university class meetings. HS: 12 years FT x 4 courses/yr x 30 weeks/course x 5 days/wk = 7200 class meetings HS/MS; together, 15,500 class mtgs with students (x .9 hr/mtg)

[r434c6] row435 seq4 21w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
10 years x 50 students/year x 2 evaluation mtgs/year/student = 1000 evals...all with parents, perhaps 200 with students also (.5 hr/mtg)

[r434c7] row435 seq5 19w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
TSG 30 wks/yr x 5 days/wk x 10 yrs = 1500MPs; prayer with students (just at TSG) (.33 hr/mtg)

[r434c8] row435 seq6 56w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
As an adult student: 4 years x 16cr/sem x 2 sem/yr x 15 wks/sem x 3 hrs/cr/wk = 5760 UG hrs; (9 phil cr/sem x 4 sem = 36 cr hrs phil + over 40 science ... say 75 grad credits x 3 hrs/cr/wk x 15 xks = 3375 grad hrs = 9135 adult student hours

[r434c9] row435 seq7 8w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
some 32K meetings, 32K hrs as an adult

[r436c3] row437 seq1 16w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
// reflections on LF's podcast interview with Ben Goertzel: AGI, OpenCog, SingularityNet, Sophia, etc... major dude

[r436c4] row437 seq2 65w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;computer science;sociology
OpenCog: weighted metagraph (linking hypergraphs, parts of hypergraphs (nodes, links), with robust typing (transforming many types of computation into hypergraphs and thus into a common computational language), with pattern searching (TL: think about pattern searching in genetics (nucleic acid polymers, proteins...) in doing an NCBI BLAST!).  This is something like a high-information-flow network of rich graphs, where graphs are representations of communities (interrelations among nodes).

[r436c5] row437 seq3 72w auto_about=- auto_disc=computer science
SingularityNet: a hardware network of instances runniing software like OpenCog, but other AI systems as well, in something like an AI Open Science Grid (or TerraGrid, etc.), toward a plug-and-play identifier of computational resources (at an AI--ML--network algorithm level) for hire. The idea here is to get so far out in front of regulation on AI info processing/sharing that regulators will just have to deal with it (in a mobile phone analogue.)

[r436c6] row437 seq4 78w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=psychology;economics
Sophia (and co-creator) David Hanson of Hanson Robotics: ideally, an agent running OpenCog and several other simultaneous perception engines, sitting on the SingularityNet, robotic, beautiful, and loving on a David K Dick model; Hanson thinks that no matter how the realistic capabiliies of Sophia are described, people gravitate toward a personal-AGI interpretation, as BG has come to agree; still, BG is inclined to be transparent about Sophia's capacitiy, whereas DH is more of a showman and a marketer.

[r437c3] row438 seq1 13w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=-
// another DH interview of import: https://youtu.be/SUW_NU7fiVI  by Joel Colombero, The Reset Movement

[r437c4] row438 seq2 20w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=-
DH on morality, evil, altruism, what he wants out of a coherent theory of morality. I should list those stated

[r438c3] row439 seq1 9w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology
//Meghan Peters UCIrvine Asst Prof -- metacognition and consciousness.

[r438c4] row439 seq2 55w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience;psychology
MP has a novel fMRI technique which non-invasively studies in human beings the alignment between metacognitive awareness and the perceptual content. Her view of Cs seems to be that somehow Cs emerges out of metacognitive states around perception. Why need metacognitive states? Because perception can be subjectively blind. See this blindsight video Peters references: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GwGmWqX0MnM

[r438c5] row439 seq3 218w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;neuroscience;psychology
TL Q:  if Cs only grabs a portion of perception, how can Cs be fundamental? This question has been nagging for a while, but comes to a head in metacognition studies. (Btw: attempts to "knock out" visual stimulus by quick follow-up with a 2nd image, in hopes of inducing an analogue to bindsight in a large number of persons for statistical study, have proven frustrating; blindsight studies seem to require robust cases, hard to replicate except by damage, making it especially hard to study in humans. (On which see Helen the monkey, below.) TL A: Suppose a network of conscious agents (think 1000 brain theory on my Cs-agent interp of JH's theory) below our level of human consciousness are the initial perceivers, and these are wired together in ways they may or may not perceive (as we at a higher level may be, when another person is watching us without our knowing it), so that perception by one agent impacts others, but all this in ways we are not wired to perceive at our higher level. Pushing up awareness of all input to our higher level is energy consumptive (in the ST interface) and simply not the only way to be aware. Our limited perspectives (at our human level of complexity) may not consist of that much detail.

[r439c3] row440 seq1 128w auto_about=Humphrey auto_disc=biology;neuroscience;sociology
bllindsight video 2: Helen, the monkey, taught to see with no visual cortex (which had been removed 2 years earlier) https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2EQTqea67Ic Nicholas Humphry. Blindsight is unconscious vision; it's not like anything to see, but if the subject is asked to guess what might be there, were he able to see, he can get it right. Helen, the monkey, developed this. So, Q: if we can see without subjective sensation, why does it exist? A: evolution has more to do with social life than anything else. Enables speculation of the contents of another person's mind. Cs is difficult to explain because that's it's function: gives us a new reason for living and caring about future of others we love...solution to hard problem is that it's designed to be hard.//

[r439c4] row440 seq2 42w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;neuroscience
another good blindsight primer: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pZBwLNYzgO4   blindsight bypasses v1, allowing limited and specific visual processing without cortical sight, w/o v1 involvement. These remaining limited visual processing capabilities vary from patient to patient. (Shape recognition is one. Object recognition is another; facial/bodily expressions another.

[r440c3] row441 seq1 20w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
// delayed choice quantum erasor experiment explained https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U7Z_TIw9InA in the 2nd half of this video; also, in this one: https://youtu.be/spKlpexL_Hg

[r440c4] row441 seq2 34w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
ingenious experiment, purporting to show that 1) our knowledge of particle trajectory is what detemines wave or particular behavior; and b) an entangled partner behaves differently in advance of that trajectory having been undertaken.

[r440c5] row441 seq3 91w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;theology
Even a single photon that makes its way through a pair of open slits exhibits a wave-like interference pattern on the other side. Drop in a detector around one (or both) of those slits to see which way it passed, and you lose the interference pattern and get just particle-like behavior. So, split that single photon into two entangled, lower-energy photons, detect the one, and see if the other participates in creation of an interference pattern...it does not. So far, if you measure it, even indirectly, you lose its wavelike independence.

[r440c7] row441 seq4 71w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
OK, so take one further step...measure the entangled partners of each of the candidate interfering particles, but then scramble that information to keep it from the experimenter through a clever arrangement of overlapping pathway possibilities. That reintroduces the interference pattern...as if what really matters is what the observer knows, not where the particles travelled.  This is the quantum erasor...here, you erase information, and the result is interference of the entangled partners.

[r440c8] row441 seq5 119w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
Now, if you withdraw that scrambling system so that the scrambling takes place only well after the interference pattern is determined, the interference pattern remains...as if some future indeterminacy of information caused the interfering of particles in the past. Now we seem to be erasing not just information but the past, since that information erasing had an effect in the past. (Go further: put a quick switch in which either erases or doesn't the information about which path was taken by which particles, and make decisions about that switch long after the impact of any erasure. Now you seem to be erasing the past, at will...as if it's not just knowledge, but free choice on which the past depends...TL.)

[r441c3] row442 seq1 32w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=physics;computer science
// this quantum erasor excusion (lines just above) came at the instigation of Brian Whitworth's Quantum Realism, which is a very DH-like project carried out by a computer scientist from NZ. brianwhitworth.com/quantum-realism

[r441c4] row442 seq2 29w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
This is a book-length project arguing that Quantum Realism underlies a S-T virtual reality. This is done by someone with apparently real chops in the VR area, CS area.

[r441c5] row442 seq3 17w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
Here's BW's Brain and Technology slide set: https://brianwhitworth.com/brain-and-technology/. You can take a course version of this also.

[r442c3] row443 seq1 44w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=physics
Tom Campbell's Center for the Unification of Science and Consciousness (cusac.org) site DH and BW's work. TC's project is My Big TOE (Theory of Everything), the reflections of a physicist (a physics-educated, ABD, NASA missle guy) who studied consciousness with a psychonaut named _________.

[r442c4] row443 seq2 51w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
Campbell's MBT (reviewed at https://sites.google.com/site/iscatusben/review-of-my-big-t by an articulate fan) sounds a lot like scientology, though claims not to be a religion but a scientific proposal. TC has funded a new version of the double-slit experiement, for the results of which his whole movement seems to be waiting breathlessly. (Results are delayed.)

[r442c5] row443 seq3 70w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=psychology
TC sites DH. DH is very likely to be steering clear of TC--worth asking DH, who must know him, because TC claims to have a complete theory unraveling every mystery of science and humanities that is a conscious realism approach...a desktop theory of perception build on a network of conscious agents, including one largest consciousness which may or may not (says TC) be the ultimate being...perhaps something beyond that exists.

[r443c3] row444 seq1 26w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
// what a rhetorical craft might look like, borrowing from PER (Maries and Singh, PHYS. REV. PHYS. EDUC. RES. 12, 010131 (2016): Pedagogical Content Knowledge PCK

[r443c4] row444 seq2 141w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
"what Shulman defined as Pedagogical Content Knowledge (PCK) [18,19]. Shulman defines PCK as the subject matter knowledge for teaching, or, in other words, PCK is a form of practical knowledge used by experts to guide their pedagogical practices in highly contextualized settings. Shulman writes “Within the category of pedagogical content knowledge, I include […] the most useful forms of representation of those ideas, the most powerful analogies, illustrations, examples, explanations, and demonstrations—in a word, the ways of representing and TEACHING ASSISTANTS’ PERFORMANCE AT … PHYS. REV. PHYS. EDUC. RES. 12, 010131 (2016) 010131-3 formulating the subject that make it comprehensible to others.” In addition, according to Shulman, PCK also includes “an understanding of what makes the learning of specific topics difficult: the conceptions and preconceptions that students bring with them to the learning of those most frequently taught topics and lessons.”"

[r443c7] row444 seq3 119w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;sociology
This is precisely what is needed at the interface of rich traditions: a craft of effective exchange of perspectives, a two-way PCK where the route to mutual understanding from each beginning is mapped. Ideally, there might be a concept inventory for the equivalent of newtonian thinking (basic mastery of fundamental concepts), each inventory written (perhaps) for tradition-specific audiences...with the key misconceptions involved in transtion from each T1-->T2 transition mapped and formulated as distractors. (FCI has only one version, because we are all generally pre-Newtonian, Aristotelian thinkers about force concepts. But one could imagine a Relativistic Concept Inventory, an RCI, with two versions: one for Aristotelian, and one for Newtonian thinkiers, with appropriate distractors for each thought cluster (each "tradition")

[r443c10] row444 seq4 79w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
Perhaps TCIs (Tradition Concept Inventories) need to have two versions, per T1-->T2 interface: answer as you think a mature T2 inhabitant would answer, and answer as you think is true. The first of these scores would get at understanding of T2; the second, at differences between T1 and T2. Perhaps development of the 1st test would be the source of misconceptions (from a T2 perspective) of T1 inhabitants, and could be used to build the T2 inhabitant (2nd) test

[r443c12] row444 seq5 72w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
Another possibility: a generic or combined T2 test, where prominent misconceptions from a number of other traditions are woven in as distractor options. But how does one make a science with such tools: a TCI or TCI toolkit of multiple such tests? It does seem as if such a toolkit could measurably pick out 1st- or 2nd-1st-language speakers of candidate traditions, and thus an objective account of qualified judges of a tradition.

[r443c14] row444 seq6 31w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology;sociology
so, quickly, what would be the topic areas for questions of an Scientific American Christian (SAC) Tradition (got to find some such name), the model building constructed on the HIFNRC infrastructure?

[r443c15] row444 seq7 36w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;computer science;sociology
Note the analogy between phyics pedagogy and the needed traditional pedagogy: Mechtenberg's Experimental Design (ED), capturing scientific patterns of observation : newtonian mechanics (and later, relativistic and quantum mechanics) : : HIFNRC infrastructure : SAC Tradition

[r443c16] row444 seq8 13w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology;sociology
[[Just toying here: SACred Tradition...) or Scientific American Catholic (Roman) T (SACRed Tradition)]]

[r443c17] row444 seq9 94w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
When would such a test be admnistered? And what would its results say? Shouldn't there be a practical analogue, a sign of having belonged, contributed, build something, as a complementary sign of mature membership? What would that look like, and how would we score it? Who would score it? What is the relationship between the score on the PCI (practical contributive inventory) and the TCI (tradition concept inventory? Perhaps a minum score on each, and a minumum combined score higher than the sum of the two individual inventory minima? (Motivation: mature membership >> membership)

[r443c19] row444 seq10 35w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
look here at PCK (pedagogical content knowledge) for the pro-life movement...gathered in keen awareness of the need to understand misconceptions and rhetorically effective strategies...but unfortunately, on a single-issue or issue-cluster basis, rather than whiolistically: http://news.nd.edu/news/national-abortion-study-finds-out-of-touch-labels-knowledge-gaps-appetite-for-moral-discussion/

[r444c3] row445 seq1 71w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology;sociology
// on God is not an asshole (GNA, NAA) and other big picture religion topics, https://medium.com/the-salve/11-former-evangelicals-talk-about-what-they-left-behind-479a614d57cb, 11 Former Evangelicals Talk About What They Left Behind:  You can’t reject the dogma without losing the community, Dani Fankhauser Jul 22, 2019 "For some evangelicals, especially millennials, the recent confluence of religion and politics has reached a tipping point. The need to distance themselves from Republican views gave rise to a new term: exvangelical."

[r444c4] row445 seq2 57w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology
Evanglicalism is mired in legalism and tends to be very shame-based. A lot of Christian theology doesn’t make sense to me anymore. If I can forgive someone simply by choosing to, why can’t God? Why do we need penal substitutionary atonement (a theology prevalent at most churches in my experience). Katharine Strange, 34, writer and editor, Seattle

[r444c5] row445 seq3 84w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology
I don’t personally see the benefit of any religion. I know many do and I think there is nothing inherently wrong with faith. I think that views of evangelical and/or fundamentalist Christianity regarding women, people of color, and mental illness to be particularly abhorrent. If we are talking about the good and bad of evangelicalism, I don’t think there is any good to keep. Whatever existed there that was good is not anything inherently owned by evangelicalism. Jessica Bennett, 30, digital archivist, Richmond, Va.

[r444c7] row445 seq4 110w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology;sociology
I consider myself an atheist now because I can’t logically look at anything in the Bible, and say, “Oh, that’s worth me believing.” Literal interpretation of Hell is just so outrageous. The idea that God, who calls himself love, created a special type of eternal life for people to stay conscious to feel burning for eternity is outrageous. I miss the community, but I also see how incredibly toxic it can be — of having, in one moment, that entire community turn against me. We talk so much about unconditional love, but I realized how conditional that could be. Brady Hardin, 32, podcast host of The Life After, St. Louis

[r444c9] row445 seq5 66w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
I miss worship music. I love being drowned by the music and singing at the top of my lungs, ’cause I can sing on key, but I’m not a Beyoncé. Nobody’s begging to hear me sing. I miss the music…that mystical experience of being with a body of people that are all involved in this communal worship. Steena Marie Brown, 29, sexual embodiment coach, Portage, Mich.

[r444c11] row445 seq6 117w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology;sociology
I go to a couple services a year for various reasons, and I’ll usually cry at some point during the singing portion. For years I thought this was the Holy Spirit convicting me to go back to church, but now I see it as a respect and tenderness for a part of my past. One thing that does help me is evangelicals don’t hold a monopoly on the truth, though they don’t admit it. So I can call myself a Christian if I want because the Christian tradition is far more rich and diverse than evangelicalism would lead you to believe. Carly Gelsinger, 31, author of Once You Go In: A Memoir of Radical Faith, Gilroy, Calif.

[r444c13] row445 seq7 235w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;theology;sociology
I remember when World Vision announced it would hire LGBTQ people and Christians responded by dropping their sponsorships of children in protest, so much so that World Vision was forced to reverse their announcement and no longer hire LGBTQ people. In that moment, I knew evangelicalism was an empty belief system that didn’t have anything to do with repairing real harm and injustice in the world. So many of the teachings of Jesus run in diametrical opposition to the popular teachings of the well-known evangelical celebrities of today. I still believe in a God that created and sustains the universe as we know it. It’s ridiculous to know how small we are and how big everything else is and understand space and quantum physics and look at all that and think we’re the pinnacle of what’s out there. I think Jesus has a lot to say about our current theological and political milieu, and he’d be disgusted by a lot of the people who call themselves “Christians” today. So many of the teachings of Jesus run in diametrical opposition to the popular teachings of the well-known evangelical celebrities of today. I still go to church. It’s a very small, very gay Episcopalian congregation in my neighborhood, so not at all what I grew up with, but I find the community and motions of church very life-giving. Emily Joy, 27, yoga teacher, spoken word poet, Nashville

[r445c3] row446 seq1 29w auto_about=Plomin auto_disc=biology;computer science
// notes from Sam Harris's podcast #211 The Nature of Human Nature, about the "DNA revolution" of the past 5 years, featuring  Robert Plomin -- get this guy's book

[r445c4] row446 seq2 27w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology
notes from the DNA revolution:  1) everything is heritable. 2) some things are heritable directly, and others through environmental influences which are themselves shaped by heritable tendencies.

[r445c5] row446 seq3 43w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology
So, eg, 70 of BMI is heritable; the other 30% follows the genetics of the biological parents (so for adopted children, 70% inherited and 30% tendency that maps on to not the parents that raised them but their biological parents...same with twin studies.)

[r445c6] row446 seq4 72w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;history
there are no disorders, and our history of identifying some behavior classes as disorders and then looking for a genetic or environmental cause (like schizsophrenia or ADD) has done a lot of harm. In fact, behaviors are intensely genetically complicated, inolving on the order of 10^3 genes rather than 10^(0,1 or 2). Whole complicated clusters of tendencies are largely shaped by these very large clusters of genes, but shaped probabilistically, not determinately.

[r446c3] row447 seq1 19w auto_about=Carroll auto_disc=biology
// notes from Sean Carroll's inverview with Stewart Bartlett, astrobiologist, on What Life Means (July 20th, 2020, episode 106)

[r446c4] row447 seq2 30w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
Contrasts Life with Lyfe (pronounced Loyf), where all Life is Lyfe, but Life does what all Lyfe does in some way, with genes, amino acid replication, and cellular membrane containers...

[r446c5] row447 seq3 54w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
Lyfe consists of four criteria: 1) Dissipation (existence of thermodynamic gradients, driving forces, and the dissipation thereof; ergonomic processes that reduce free energy); 2) autocatalysis (the ability to grow exponentially when resurces are abundant); 3) homeostasis (the abiliity to regulate physical variables to within viable ranges); and 4) learning (information storage, processing, and benefit)

[r447c3] row448 seq1 21w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
// Johann Hari The Opposite of Addiction is Connection (another facet of our shallow interconnectedness, our poverty of community life, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PY9DcIMGxMs

[r448c3] row449 seq1 50w auto_about=Rohr auto_disc=theology
// from Richard Rohr, Inner Unity, Sunday,  July 26, 2020. Got to connect nonviolence to human rights ... not as a means to an end only, but nonviolence as the fruit of inner unity, pointing to a right to nonviolent treatment ... to being treated in Christ, as Christ ...

[r448c4] row449 seq2 182w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology
We’re all like localized vibrations of the infinite goodness of God’s presence. So love is our very nature. Love is our first, middle, and last name. Love is all; not [love as] sentimentality, but love that is self-forgetful and free of self-interest. ... This is also marvelously exemplified in Gandhi’s life and work. He never tried to win anything. He just tried to show love; and that’s what ahimsa [the Hindu principle of nonviolence out of respect for all living things] really means. It’s not just a negative. Nonviolence doesn’t capture its meaning. It means to show love tirelessly, no matter what happens. That’s the meaning of turning the other cheek [Matthew 5:39]. Once in a while you have to defend somebody, but it means you’re always willing to suffer first for the cause—that is to say, for communion with your enemies. If you overcome your enemies [through force and violence], you’ve failed. If you make your enemies your partners, God has succeeded. (From [2] Thomas Keating, Healing Our Violence through the Journey of Centering Prayer, disc 5 (Franciscan Media: 2002), CD.

[r448c7] row449 seq3 99w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology;sociology
Non-violence was not simply a political tactic which was supremely useful and efficacious in liberating his people from foreign rule . . . the spirit of non-violence sprang from an inner realization of spiritual unity in himself. The whole Gandhian concept of non-violent action . . . is incomprehensible if it is thought to be a means of achieving unity rather than as the fruit of inner unity already achieved. [1] (Thomas Merton, “Gandhi and the One-Eyed Giant,” introduction to Gandhi on Non-violence: Selected Texts from Mohandas K. Gandhi’s Non-violence in Peace and War (New Directions: ©1964, 1965), 6.)

[r448c9] row449 seq4 3w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
rights are needs

[r449c3] row450 seq1 96w auto_about=- auto_disc=computer science;theology
// going a step further; what is the ultimate end of human beings? What is the calculation we are peforming, the computational task we are trying to solve? Self-driving cars? Not enough. Collective, harmonious pursuit of the maximization of love for one another, connectedness, active favor toward the active favor of all others, deep inclusion, universal love, deep enjoyment through shared diversity, optimal information flow among the great chain of conscious being, the only primary being there is, God in his/her many perspectives, that is, all of us, and what we are all of us, all.

[r450c3] row451 seq1 2w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
// narrative

[r451c3] row452 seq1 9w auto_about=Hawkins auto_disc=neuroscience
// https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=2761&v=5KnFrf3UDQY&feature=emb_logo Hawkins (JH)'s primer on how neurons work...

[r451c4] row452 seq2 96w auto_about=- auto_disc=chemistry;neuroscience
dendrites fan out in seach of patterns; they spike when a cluster of synapses in a small (say 40 micron) area are all excited in some same window...thus dendrites are pattern recognizers...(where each of roughly 20 synapses (which turns out to be a mathematically optimal number) is uniquely connected to a different axon from some different neuron, almost always 1:1, so that you can model these as bits (on/off) in spite of the fairly wide stochastic distribution of chemical flow across synapses; that flow basically only gets you (never say never) a 0 or a 1.

[r451c6] row452 seq3 86w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
most dendrites are excitory, signal-seaching in function; about 20% (very important) seem to be negative, inhibitory in function, with maybe 20 or so different functions performed; these seem to be the logic, the gatekeepers of signal (only fire under this condition, when these other conditions are met...)  inhibitory cells (like basket cells) tend to be connected to many pyrimidal cells (with the pyramid conjoining dendridic trunks to axons...), and their connections tend not be learned, but just present and maximally push a stop signal to neighbors...

[r451c8] row452 seq4 73w auto_about=- auto_disc=biology;neuroscience;computer science
neurons are connected in clusters, many to many, where each axon connects to a single dendrite, but with lots of close neighbors from cluster 1 to close neighbors to cluster 2, so that patterns embodied in neuron distribution are passed as information across biological neural networks...90% of what the neuron does is predictive; most of these predictions are silent; they don't leave the neuron. (Prediction: this isn't part of what's about to happen....(TL))

[r451c9] row452 seq5 53w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
There is backward spiking, forward down the axon, but backward up the dendrites (back action potential), which likely follows back along the route of the most recent forward dendridic spikes...(at least in terrns of efficacy on the synapses...)...hebbian learning gets back to condition synapses in dendridic sections via this back action potential propogation...

[r451c10] row452 seq6 16w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
...error / unpredicted input is what stirs neuronal activity maximally; much less activity around predicted input...

[r451c11] row452 seq7 68w auto_about=- auto_disc=neuroscience
multistage predictive neuron: distant dendridic signals, correlating with promimate (near pyramid) dendridic spikes, passing through local inhibitory cells, producing axonal (somatic) spiking...all sitting inside a network of neighboring, shared (basked) inhibitory cellss...this is a much more complex picture than the standard input/output model of neurons...// frequency coding (there's another name) is a big deal in some cells (such as grid cells) but less so generally in cortical neurons...

[r452c3] row453 seq1 67w auto_about=Rohr auto_disc=theology
// From Richard Rohr, Wed, July 29: The Buddhist monk Thich Nhat Hanh (born 1926) is one of the world’s most influential spiritual teachers. During the Vietnam War, his work for peace brought him into friendship with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Thomas Merton, and other Christians who shared his belief that peace must be who we are, not just something we demand. Thich Nhat Hanh teaches:

[r452c4] row453 seq2 59w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology
The root-word “budh” means to wake up, to know, to understand. A person who wakes up and understands is called a Buddha. It is as simple as that. The capacity to wake up, to understand, and to love is called Buddha nature. [Christians would call this Christ nature, the Christ self, or the mind of Christ.] . . .

[r452c5] row453 seq3 50w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
When you understand, you cannot help but love. . . . To develop understanding, you have to practice looking at all living beings with the eyes of compassion. When you understand, you love. And when you love, you naturally act in a way that can relieve the suffering of people.

[r452c7] row453 seq4 114w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology
TL:  so Sam Harris's "Wakiing Up", about becoming mindful, etc, about becoming "woke", is about waking up to love, or comes close to this...what't the difference? Is RR right, when he says that Christians would call taking on the Buddha Nature, taking on the mind of Christ, putting on Christ? Is being woke, being annointed? More from Hahn: "Humankind has become a very dangerous species. We need people who can sit still and be able to smile, who can walk peacefully. We need people like that in order to save us. Mahayana Buddhism says that you are that person. . . ." Is this parallel, complementary, or the same as "Christ in You" insight?

[r453c3] row454 seq1 70w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;theology;sociology
// a few related reflections from the Monday July 17 RC podcast episode: setting up the retelling of the Christian Narrative...JP pointed to motivational challenges on both theoretical and otherwise practical levels: what's the difference? Or if there is some theoretical difference, what real practical difference does it make, which perspective (traditional, 2-story, Creator/creature sharp separation, creation as physicalism + "spiritual" ; vs 1-story, Christ-in-You, CR, HIFNRC model) one adopts?

[r453c4] row454 seq2 34w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology;sociology
1. Acknowledged importance of two-fold, T/P motivational skepticism; these are the frontiers of engagement for the efficacious impact in which any tradition, and thus this Conscious Christ Creator model, must develop rhetorical, tradition-paired resources

[r453c5] row454 seq3 217w auto_about=Hoffman auto_disc=physics;computer science;theology;sociology;economics
2. I put one example in place: 'God is not an Asshole' response to persistent problem of damnation, ultimate failure, plaguing Christian apologists always..tied to "two-story universe" theodicy, as the reason--testing, the drama of salvation--requiring success and failure. Predestination, of course, makes this strategy ludicrous at best (teaching, sharing, value of created order for limited creatures like ourselves (as if pain of eternal damnation were somehow the price of admission (tiny, infinitely weighted tryout) to this show); wicked at worst. The point here is that try as you might to divorce the raw hellfire and brimstone unforgiving threat (GasA) from the theodicy, there is no coherent account of why two stories, or that two stories, in traditional theodicy. What perspectival consiousness in a 1-story, CR universe does (besides open the windows to a fresh way of resolving the big picture at many levels) is provide a non-GasA rationale (aligned with QM possible-is-actual insight while avoiding unthinking many-worlds/every-world cosmology) for the distinction among conscious agents (for the CR advocates like DH) and a rationale for "creation" and theodicy for evil: logical connections can be explored consciously, and the pathway through logical relations among particulars is expressed as S-T experience, where each computationial pathway is particularized as persons; not e ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r454c3] row455 seq1 28w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
// woke up with two big ideas: CE3 leveraging for SB projects; and two-Marine setting for american narrative (build out larger through future study of whole Burwell/slavery line)

[r455c3] row456 seq1 15w auto_about=MacIntyre;Charles Taylor auto_disc=-
// Andrew Kaufman's review of Jason Blakely's AM, CT and the demies of naturalism.  https://voegelinview.com/alasdair-macintyre-charles-taylor-demise-naturalism/

[r455c4] row456 seq2 28w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology;history
"Social science must be interpretive and historical, not mechanistic and positivist. It must see the human being as creative, purposive, evaluative, and story-telling, not as a disembodied atom."

[r455c5] row456 seq3 39w auto_about=MacIntyre;Charles Taylor auto_disc=sociology
Against naturalism, a reductionist, mechanistic scientism, AM & CT put forward a humanism, in which human interpretations of their world, defended in narrative accounts and replete with intentions and puposes, which when it matures becomes a human social science.

[r455c6] row456 seq4 70w auto_about=- auto_disc=philosophy;sociology
K: "Blakely would have done well to provide us a model of how interpretive and statistical methodologies could complement one another (perhaps none exists?). And certainly, as philosophers Macintyre and Taylor are not the candidates to provide such a complementary approach." Is that not what the HIFNRC paradigm does? Rubrics, Tradition Concept Inventories, identification of crucial social experiments (at meetings of mutually-imaginatively-immersive encounters of measurably mature inhabitants of rival traditions...

[r455c8] row456 seq5 123w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
K:B:M&T already provide examples of political science done intepretively. But (K:) "Blakely may be taking political scientists into a world that will introduce significant disciplinary turmoil...// Part of the solution to this turmoil is the complementary institute model for advancing inequiry: parallel to disciplines, sit integrated communities of inquiry. Not just interdisciplinary academic inquiry, but wholistic, theoretical and practical embodied inquiry. Living together, founding schools, building political movements, taking on central problems from a coherent wholistic shared perspective, welcoming clusters of students even at UG level, surely G level, participating in (or first initiating) fora for the crucial experiments described just left. Center for Ethics and Culture means to be this, but doesn't yet see how (or I don't see that they see.)

[r456c3] row457 seq1 15w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
// reflections on Sean Carrol's Biggest Ideas in the Universe (BIU) #20: entropy and information

[r456c4] row457 seq2 88w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
Shannon: the amount of information caried by a symbol across a channel--the content--is a function of the "surprisal" factor", where p(x) is the probability of that information symbol x being the case, against contextual background; the amount of information I(x) = log (1/(px) = - log p(x) = negative exponent of the mathematical expression of the unlikelihood. (If the information is a 1-in-a-million chance of being expected, then I(x) = - log (10^-6) = 6 (that quantification is my interpretation of Sean Carrol's account of Claude Shannon's meaning.)

[r456c5] row457 seq3 180w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
Think about what this implies for information processing within vs. across rich communities. As a rule, filtered through the same worldview, claims from peers inside a tradition will be largely expected; claims from persons outside of one's tradition, filtered differently, will likely be more surprising. So to grow in information content, a tradition's store of information will want to include some proportion of information from outside the community. That's the question, the idea, the avenue for exploration. Can we tighten this up, and quantify it? Somehow we need a distinction between "surpising" and "improbable". For we can come to accept very surpising things, only if they cohere in some way with a number of other things we think, and thus become probable enough to accept, though surpsising in some other sense. So there must exist some sizable pocket of background against which a piece of information is inprobable, and another against which it is probable, for us to accept any piece of information as surprising. These pockets of information must cohere--seem likely to stand or fall together--to delimit pocket boundaries.

[r456c8] row457 seq4 300w auto_about=MacIntyre auto_disc=philosophy;sociology;history
So, then, from external sources may be more likely to come communication--bits of information--with large content, as unlikely against general background view but as especially plausible against some important subset of information, some coherent pocket of information, which is valuable as information and at risk without itself coherening with the new content brought in from the outside. There's got to be some math for this. And this would describe, for example, a potential analysis from outside a tradition of why it emerged, and a potential solution for it of an epistemological crisis within a tradition, such as AM describes as pivotal in the history of interactions among traditions, potentially of historical significance in terms of the results of the processing by the mature members of engaging traditions. These processings may, on occation of conversion of mature inhabitands from one to another tradition on account of the illumination of the roots of the epistemological crises of the one in light of the other, So, Q: might the net results of such encounters be an overall increase in information, even in principle measurable or quantitatively and nomologically characterizable? For perhaps, in such cases, a potentially rich pocket of information, highly productive and illuminating if true, stands at risk of diminishment when multiplied through by the improbability of the pock ...[TRUNCATED, full text in tl_sandbox_cells.json]

[r456c13] row457 seq5 130w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
So when communities interact, they do so in such a way as to maximze information retention and growth...or, rather, this is what successful interaction looks like. Isn't it possible that they go to war with one another and destroy both accumulated stores of information, in largest measure? Or systematically warp the store of information trickling in from a percieved rival, and so fail to learn from it, instead deflecting only those apparently false claims trickling through the self-imposed filter, claims the rival does not in fact make? (Better language here is perspectives, that the rival tradition does not in fact adopt, so that the one tradition imagines deeply dysfunctional human beings adopting rediculous perspectives, when those are not at all what mature members of the rival tradition entertain or adopt.

[r456c15] row457 seq6 126w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
If there is a quantitative law governing interactions among communities, it might be more like this: the quantity of information exchange across the whole is a function of the quantity of specific types of information exchange among specific types of its members (something like imaginative cohabitation of rivals among trusted mature members.) Trust, maturity, and imaginative cohabitation are all necessary (sufficient?) for information to flow: (1) maturity, for setting the relevant probabilities (such as surprisal against one subset, plausibility against another necessary for rich-content information flow); (2) imaginative cohabitation, for making contact with the actual information stored cognitively and noncognitively in the rival tradition; and (3) trust, for information to flow throughout the receiving tradition through cognitive (explicit teaching) and noncognitive (exemplification, cultural placement, etc) mechanisms.

[r456c17] row457 seq7 175w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
Way out on a limb, here, bearing in mind the distinctions among content (amount) of info transfered, rate of that transfer to mature members of t1, rate of transfer throughout t1 to less mature members, and degree of saturation of that information throughout all members):  is the total effective information transfer from t2 to t1 (I-trans-t2->t1) equal to the product of the amount of information available in t2 (I-total-t2) * # of full information transfers through cohabitation of mature members from t1 in t2 (I-trans-mt1<-t2) * speed of that transfer * average rate of transfer from mature members of t1 to less mature members of t1 * # of less mature members. This is something like the growth rate to a new effective surface area in t1 of a quantity of information from t2. This is something like the virality of that information to spread itself from a single instance in t1 to effective spread throughout t2. Not the only quantity to measure, just the first that occurred to me to try to hammer out.

[r457c3] row458 seq1 59w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics;history
.., SC BIU # 20 continued: 4 different senses of entropy (and later, from his Q&A session on entropy, a 5th and historically primary sense, a thermodynamic sense, inserted out of sequence here // some physicists were taught the definition of entropy in equilibrium settings, but in fact these definitions all apply in nonequilibrium also (that is, all situations)

[r457c4] row458 seq2 25w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
1. Entropy in the thermodynamic sense, from Rudolf Clausius, where dS = dQ/T, change in entropy (S) is change in heat (Q) divided by Temperature

[r457c5] row458 seq3 37w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
Botlzman: course-graining approach, where entropy seems a subjective state of affairs because choice of course-graining does...but the laws of physics determine to a large extent how we can course-grain the universe; that is, what we can measure...

[r457c6] row458 seq4 12w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
Gibbs: sum of plogp... (how much you don't know about a state)

[r457c7] row458 seq5 12w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
Shannon: looks formally the same as Gibbs's but with very different meaning

[r457c8] row458 seq6 92w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
QM: entanglement entropy, or von neuman entropy, may know a lot about the whole system, but very little about its parts...observationally, can ignore wave function of composite system; as if the spin of each part is described by a mixed quantum state, where Pspin up for A is .5; and that it is down is also .5...density matrixes / density operators are involved here...there is in the formula for vnentropy, a trace component (like a sum) and a log p component...like the components in other accounts of entropy (surely gibbs's and shannon's)

[r457c10] row458 seq7 13w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
all these accounts of entropy relate it to information, but in different ways

[r457c11] row458 seq8 18w auto_about=- auto_disc=physics
(maybe black hole entropy is entanglement entropy between what is inside and what is outside the event horizon...)

[r458c3] row459 seq1 14w auto_about=- auto_disc=-
// to JR, JP, RL on the fundemental elements of the retold American story

[r458c4] row459 seq2 196w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology
Hey, everybody. Again, very sorry (Rachel : ) to have misfired a bit on my text canceling tonight's meeting. Setting up for Monday, I want to add just one more (a 3rd) dimension to this limited discussion of rights, which are central to the retelling of the American story. Last time, we discussed (1)) a definition of rights (as needs, whose satisfaction is, in the judgement of the mature members of the most stable community(ies), conducive to the good of every person); and (2) envisioned a flourishing federalist system of limited government promoting experiments in human living to nurture the growth and interchange among a diverse range of experiments in human communities. So far, sounds pretty American. But what exactly are the contents of those rights? That content comes from the deliverances of the mature members of the best (most stable) communities, so far. I want to capture essential content of that sort in the idea of the dignity of human persons, which is defined loosely in the attached "Resanctifying Human Life", and developed more fully in terms of the then-best current thinking about self-esteem in "Towards a Full Theory of Self-Esteem", parts 1 & 2.

[r458c8] row459 seq3 81w auto_about=- auto_disc=sociology;psychology
These are old papers, but they were written as foundational material for the very project we are now seeing come to life (the full Resurrecting Civility project.) The point in sharing them is to share some idea of the kind of terrain, (3)--sometimes called rational psychology, which is roughly about human psychological health/wellbeing--that must be tapped in some way to provide substance to the form of rights, (1) and the venue for discovering the content of rights (2). In this sense,

[r458c10] row459 seq4 141w auto_about=- auto_disc=theology
I think America is a Christian country in its roots, insofar as respect for the dignity of human beings is the fruit of reflection on Christian living (which I think in some important sense it is.) No worries about digesting all or any of this. We'll recap on Monday, and dive only as deep into the papers as you're inclined to go. We'll then have a wrap on the fundamental pillars of the story of the American past: an empirical account of the nature of rights claims, of the sort--with the content--that we associate with our founding documents, and as the emerging fruit of the limited government American federalism. Then on to a similar light treatment of Christianity. Then back for a higher-resolution pass at the foundations, following roughly the schema of the 3-lense matrix. Have a great weekend : )

[r459c3] row460 seq1 12w auto_about=Rohr auto_disc=-
// Richard Rohr Order Disorder Reorder Series ... from the introduction: https://cac.org/the-universal-pattern-2020-08-09/?utm_source=cm&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=dm&utm_content=summary

